File: 01.Bursar_s Welcome Letter (MT24) .pdf
                                                            CATHERINE WEBB

                                                                                     BURSAR

Dear Postgraduate Student,

Many congratulations on your new academic journey!

I am pleased to welcome you at Emmanuel College, an inclusive, vibrant and

friendly community. Thank you for choosing Emmanuel College, a place where we

aim to equip every member with the knowledge and skills they need to ﬂourish, for

life. I hope that your journey with us is enjoyable, and I very much look forward to

meeting you in person before too long.

TO ALL NEW POSTGRADUATE STUDENTS

This letter sets out the arrangements for paying the bills that cover your fees and

other charges such as food and rent. Please read it carefully, and if you have any

queries regarding this letter or ﬁnancial matters in general, please do not hesitate     to

contact me.

BEFORE YOU COME TO CAMBRIDGE

Postgraduates will be required to make a ‘First Payment’ at the start of their studies,

details below.

You must complete and return the form ‘Details of Funding for University

Composition Fees’ to student-billing@emma.cam.ac.uk. This tells us who to bill for

the University Composition Fees for your course. This may be your department, a

funding body or you personally. All Postgraduates should return this form by 1st

September.

Postgraduates who expect their University Composition Fees to be paid by a UK

grant making body, for example a Research Council, the Wellcome Trust, University

Department etc., must provide the postgraduate admissions team with a copy of the

formal award letter from the grant making body, or their Department in Cambridge,

notifying them of the award. Please send this to postgrad-

admissions@emma.cam.ac.uk by 1st September.

All postgraduates are required to obtain a guarantor to sign a legally binding

contract accepting responsibility for the payment of their University Composition

Fees. The guarantor may be the student themselves, a parent or the funding body

named on the Details of Funding for University Composition Fees form mentioned

above. The Postgraduate Form of Guarantee is enclosed with this letter. The

guarantee must be sent to student-billing@emma.cam.ac.uk together with the

Funding for University Composition Fees form, by no later than 1st September.

                St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                www.emma.cam.ac.uk      @emmanuelcambridge
FIRST PAYMENT AND COLLEGE BILLS

For European and Overseas students, we strongly recommend you obtain your visa

before making the First Payment, as without a visa you will not be able to enter the

UK.

All postgraduates are required to make a First Payment. This is £2,740.00 if you are

living in college accommodation, or £548.00 if you are living in privately owned

accommodation or in a couple`s ﬂat. This amount is then held as a permanent credit

on your account and is set against the ﬁnal bill for your course. A First Payment is

required because rent and charges are billed a signiﬁcant time in arrears (termly)

and if your expenditure follows a normal pattern then your ﬁnal bill should be close

to zero. If you arrive in October your ﬁrst bill for rent and other charges will not be

due for payment until January, but if you arrive before October 1st an initial bill will

be issued – see below. The First Payment does not oﬀset against any interim debts to

the College.

For Postgraduates receiving scholarships from Emmanuel College, your First

payment will be retained from the scholarship. If for any reason you are unable to

make the First Payment in time or will experience hardship as a result of making

your First Payment, please contact me as soon as possible.

Until your First Payment has been paid you will not be able to collect your room key.

The Porter’s Lodge will be able to check that your payment has cleared. If you arrive

at the Porter’s Lodge without either having paid the First payment or being granted

a special permission by the Bursar, you will need to pay the First Payment by credit

card to the Porters.

Postgraduates who decide to move out of College accommodation may have 80% of

their First Payment returned as a credit against their College bill. Conversely, those

students who have paid the reduced First Payment will be required to pay the

balance if they take up College accommodation.

PAYMENT OF TERMLY BILLS

Please note, if you take up residence in your room before 1st of October, you will be

charged for rent from the arrival date to 30th September. Payment for this will be

due by mid-October.

The dates by which Termly bills must be paid during the academic year 2024-25 are

as follows:

     Michaelmas Term     by 15th January 2025

     Lent Term           by 27th April 2025

     Easter Term         by 20th August 2025

     Long Vacation       by 15th October 2025

                      St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                      www.emma.cam.ac.uk  @emmanuelcambridge
Your bills will be sent to you by e-mail from student-billing@emma.cam.ac.uk. If you

have any queries about your bill, please get in touch via the same email.

Reminders will not be sent, and if you do not pay your bill on time, you will be

subject to a £50 College Fine.

Please note that the First Payment cannot be oﬀset against any interim debts to the

College.

Postgraduates who are unable to pay their bill on time should immediately contact

the Postgraduate Tutor who will, in appropriate cases, make special arrangements

on account of hardship. Please see below the list of tutors assigned on surname basis:

A to H         Mr. Jeremy Caddick

I to P         Professor Clare Pettitt

R to Z         Professor Cathie Rae

During your ﬁnal year, special procedures will apply.

Postgraduates with a course end date of September, your Easter Term bill will be

due 7 days before your intended departure date. If your dissertation is overrunning

for any reason, the Easter Term bill will be due by the second Wednesday in October.

Postgraduates with a course date end of June, please be advised that credit facilities

for rent will no longer apply after 30th June in your ﬁnal year, and rent will be

charged monthly in advance for July, August and September. Invoices will be raised

on the ﬁrst of each of these months and if not paid within 7 days you will be

required to vacate your college accommodation.

A ﬁnal bill for any other (non-rent) long vacation charges will be sent to you at the

end of September and will be due for payment with the Easter Term bill. If you leave

before the end of September, you must pay these additional charges along with your

Easter Term bill before you leave.

If your course end date over-runs, and you remain in college accommodation, you

will be billed monthly in advance for your rent until you vacate college

accommodation. Other personal charges will continue to be billed to you on a

termly basis.

Postgraduates are required to inform the College of their impending departure no

later than two weeks before your planned leaving date by using the Online Exeat

system available on the College website.

Postgraduates are also required to leave a forwarding address by updating their

First Destination and/or Home address on CamSIS so they remain contactable.

Overseas Postgraduates and those Postgraduates responsible for payment of their

own University Composition Fees, either from a grant paid directly to them or on a

               St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

               www.emma.cam.ac.uk         @emmanuelcambridge
personal basis, will be required to pay the fees to the College by no later than the

following dates:

Michaelmas Term        16th October 2024

Lent Term              15th January 2025

Easter Term            27th April 2025

If your course starts at the beginning of October, you will receive a pro forma bill on

arrival at the College and will be required to pay the ﬁrst fee instalment by 16th

October 2024.

A formal fees bill for all University fees due from you in three instalments will be

also sent to you mid-November, which should be identical to the proforma bill

received at the beginning of Michaelmas term. Please adjust the formal bill by

deducting the one third of fees you have already paid and pay half of the balance        of

the invoiced fees by the above due dates. For further clariﬁcation please see

Appendix 1.

If your normal residence is overseas, in your ﬁrst term it may be possible to defer

payment of your fees to allow time for you to open a UK bank account. Payment

may only be delayed until two weeks after the beginning of full term, details about

University term dates can be found on their website: https://www.cam.ac.uk/about-

the-university/term-dates-and-calendars

If you are in ﬁnancial diﬃculty, you should speak to your Postgraduate Tutor at the

earliest opportunity.

PAYMENTS TO STUDENTS AND BANK ACCOUNT REQUIREMENTS

During your time at Emmanuel, it is likely that the College will make a payment to

you, perhaps for a Prize, Award, or Scholarship, or a grant for travel or hardship.

Please be advised that the College will only remit to your personal UK bank account.

Please use the online bank form on the College`s website to request a bank letter that

will enable you to open a UK bank account if you don’t have one. Any unclaimed

balances within 24 months of your course ﬁnishing will be treated as a donation to

the College.

If you do not have a UK bank account, you should be aware that in order to obtain

one it will be necessary to supply various proofs of identity (for example your

current valid passport with visa, letter of introduction from the College - by

contacting Tutorial Oﬃce at tutorial-oﬃce@emma.cam.ac.uk list of College fees,

conﬁrmation of sponsorship or bursary and University card).

                       St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                       www.emma.cam.ac.uk  @emmanuelcambridge
In addition, you will need to explain the reason for your residence in the UK.  If you

are in any doubt about your ability to pay via the banking system, travellers’

cheques are an alternative method of payment.

FINANCIAL TRANSFERS FROM HOME AND OVERSEAS BANKS TO THE COLLEGE

All payments for student accounts should be made using the below bank account

details. Transfers may be made from home and overseas banks directly into the

College bank account as detailed below:

Barclays Bank

Account name:     Emmanuel College Income Account

Bank sort code:   20–17–68

Bank account no:  00347183

IBAN:             GB 98 BARC 201768 00347183

Swift Code:       BARCGB22

In all cases your CRSID or your full name MUST be quoted as a reference.

You will be expected to meet any bank charges related to these transfers personally.

Payments from overseas accounts can also be made via Transfermate by accessing

the following link: https://emmanuelcollegecambridge.transfermateeducation.com/

If you have any queries regarding this letter or ﬁnancial matters in general, please do

not hesitate to contact me via email: csw28@emma.cam.ac.uk or by phone: number

01223 334225.

I look forward to welcoming you to Emmanuel in the autumn,

                                                            Catherine Webb, Bursar

                  St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                  www.emma.cam.ac.uk     @emmanuelcambridge
APPENDIX 1

Applicable to overseas students responsible for paying their    own  University and

College fees

On or after 1st October  Pro forma fees bill issued                        £30,000.00

Mid-October              1st instalment is due                             £10,000.00

Total remainder, payable as per the bill breakdown                         £20,000.00

Mid-November             Formal fees bill issued, as per pro forma bill    £30,000.00

By mid-November, students should have paid the ﬁrst fee instalment         £10,000.00

shown on proforma bill. As such, 1/3 should be deducted oﬀ the total due.

Total remainder, payable as per the bill breakdown                         £20,000.00

                         St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

              www.emma.cam.ac.uk  @emmanuelcambridge
