File: 01.Computer Network.pdf
                     INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AT EMMANUEL COLLEGE

                     Student Facilities

                     Emmanuel has an excellent computer network that connects more than a

thousand devices, used by Fellows, students and staff, to the University Network and

Internet. All student rooms have wired access to the College computer network and most of the

site is covered by wireless.

Students have access to three managed computer rooms in College; particularly useful for those

without their own computer and for those needing access to specific teaching applications.

•  Robert Sansom Computer Room provides 5 PCs and a Multi-function device that scans,

   prints (both B&W and colour) and photocopies.

•  Emmanuel House Computer Room has 4 PCs and B&W laser printer.

•  Library Computer Room has 5 PCs and a B&W laser printer.

During term all of the rooms are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and require a registered

University card to gain access (which is given to you when you arrive).

Please note that if you decide to bring your own printer, you will have to turn off its wireless

capability and use a USB cable instead to print from your machine. Enabling the wireless on your

printer can cause interference with the College’s wireless network and an intermittent connection

for you and your neighbours.

Connecting your Computer

You should be able to connect any computer running an up-to-date operating system to the

network. This includes Windows 10/11 and Apple MacOS. If you are unsure then please get in

touch using the contact details below. Further details can be found at

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/contact/students/is/connect/ . If you are unable to access this page then

contact us at the start of term; we will be holding an introductory talk during your first week.

If you have any questions then please e-mail is@emma.cam.ac.uk.

See you in October!

Emmanuel IT Office

                              St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                              www.emma.cam.ac.uk
