File: 01.Dean_s Letter 2024 (P_Grads).pdf
                 To New Postgraduate Students

                 Welcome to Emmanuel. I know that when you come up you will find the College

                 to be friendly and welcoming. In each of the Colleges in Cambridge there is a

                 Dean or a Chaplain, most of whom, like me, are clergy of the Church of England.

                 As Dean it is my job to offer support and encouragement to all members of the

College, regardless of whether you have any religious belief or not. I am very aware that life as a

postgraduate student can be stressful and the move from the more structured life of an

undergraduate can pose problems. I am one of the people who are here to help in whatever way I

can. I am in College each day except Saturday. I live in Camden House at the end of Park

Terrace. In a crisis you may contact me at any time. I will be introduced to you soon after you

arrive and I will be around for many of the events in the first few days of term. As well as being the

Dean I am also one of the Postgraduate Tutors, and also the Praelector (the person who looks

after graduation and matriculation ceremonies).

There are, of course, many people in the College who are here to help you. As well as the

Postgraduate Tutors there is a College Counsellor, Tim Ellis, who is available at regular times each

week. There is also a College Nurse to help you with medical matters.

As you might expect, I also run the College Chapel. You can’t miss the Chapel – it faces you as

you come through the front gate and acts as a reminder that there is a religious dimension to all of

life. A community such as Emmanuel includes all shades of religious belief and unbelief, and I

hope that you will find in the Chapel programme something to help you reflect on issues of faith

whatever your background, and whether you regard yourself as an interested bystander or a

committed believer. Everyone is welcome at all the chapel services. In normal times there are

three main services each week, on Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday evenings, as well as

morning prayer on weekdays. Please email me or fill in the accompanying form if you would

like to be kept informed of Chapel events or if you would be willing to help with reading in

Chapel. It is really useful to have as many people as possible to help with the reading. If you are a

singer, the Chapel Choir is a sociable and welcoming group. They will be holding auditions soon

after the beginning of term, and there are Choral Exhibitions and help with singing lessons

available to regular members. Email Graham Walker (ghw22@cam.ac.uk) the Director of Music, to

find out more.

There are many other religious groups that are independent of the Chapel. Within the College the

Christian Union rep is Sophia Brehm (sjb357@cam.ac.uk). There are also many religious

societies and chaplaincies in Cambridge. The Roman Catholic chaplaincy to the University is

based at Fisher House in the centre of town (the College rep is Susie de Vial (sd937@cam.ac.uk)

and the Methodist Chaplaincy is based at Wesley Church. There are Jewish, Muslim and Hindu

chaplaincies and active Buddhist, Sikh Jain and Baha’i societies in the University.

I very much hope that your time here will be happy and fulfilled. I look forward to meeting you!

With very best wishes,

The Reverend Jeremy Caddick

jlc24@cam.ac.uk

                        St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                             www.emma.cam.ac.uk
