File: 01.Postgraduate Tutors Welcome 2024.pdf
                               1

                                                            Mr Jeremy Caddick

                                                            Postgraduate Tutor

                        Dear New Postgraduate Student,

Welcome to Cambridge, and to Emmanuel College in particular. The aim of this New

Postgraduates’ Pack is to convey the information that you will need to know about arriving

and to give some information about the College and the community here. Some of you will

have studied here for your undergraduate degree and will be familiar with Emmanuel and the

way things happen here. If so, please still read the information here so that you are not

tripped up by things that are different for postgraduates.

There are three Postgraduate Tutors, myself (jlc24@cam.ac.uk), Professor Clare Pettitt

(cp240@cam.ac.uk) and Professor Cathie Rae (cr18@cam.ac.uk) . Between us we have

responsibility for the arrangements for postgraduate students, and for promoting your

general well being. We can liaise with your department or point you in the direction of more

specialized sources of help such as counseling services. If you are not already a member of

Emmanuel, then we look forward to welcoming you here very soon. I am also the Dean and

Chaplain and you will find a letter from me in that capacity among the documents listed on

the website.

You will have received by now a letter from the Board of Graduate Studies (or for a few

students, some other relevant body) saying that you have been admitted as a postgraduate

student from a given date; this may have been accompanied by a statement of conditions

that remain to be fulfilled, and in this case the same conditions apply, of course, to

admission to the College. It is important that you tell us as soon as possible if you are not

intending to take up your place in Cambridge.

This letter refers to a number of documents on the section of the College website for new

postgraduate  students  at     www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/.

Freshers’ could get a hard copy of Freshers’ Pack from the Porters’ Lodge on arrival if

needed.

PLANNING YOUR DATE OF ARRIVAL

Michaelmas Term starts on the Tuesday 8th October 2024.

The University Faculty or Department that you are joining will be in touch to explain what

induction arrangements they are making. Should you be unable to arrive on time for whatever

reason please contact both me and your supervisor/course director in your faculty.

For most new postgraduates the College will be providing accommodation. Your room will

be available from 3rd October. If, for any reason, you wish to come earlier than this (for

example if your course requires you to be here earlier), then please let me know in good time

and we will do our best to make appropriate arrangements.

              St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                            www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                           2

                   FIRST PAYMENT

                   The College requires a First Payment before arrival, which is intended

                   to be equivalent to a typical termly bill for food and accommodation.

                   You are charged in arrears for these things and so the First Payment is

                   a way of spreading the cost of the payments and ensuring that your

last bill, which has the First Payment set against it, is very small. It is not a deposit.

The amount required depends on whether you will be accommodated by College or not and

is detailed in the Bursar’s Financial Letter. Please read both of these documents carefully.

If you will have difficulty making this payment before you arrive (for example, if you need to

wait until your first funding payment)

Please contact us to make other arrangements. Part-time students, those from Harvard and

those in college flats pay a reduced first payment as students in non-college

accommodation.

FINANCIAL GUARANTEE

On the website you will find a financial Guarantee Funding form. It is very important that

everyone completes this form and returns it, so that the College knows where to send the

bills for your fees. If you don’t return the form then the Bursary staff will assume that you are

personally liable for your fees.

ARRIVAL

When you arrive you should check in at the Porters’ Lodge. There you should sign in and

collect your keys and University Card. It is important that we have a signature to confirm

your arrival date. This applies to all students whether you have College accommodation or

not. You must have made your First Payment (or made an arrangement) before the Porters

can give you your key or University Card.

ID AND VISA CHECK

This is compulsory for all students starting a new degree. It takes place on Thursday 3rd,

Friday 4th and Wednesday 9th October between 8.30am and 5pm in the Tutorial Office.

UK students: UK passport (if you do not have a passport, provide your full birth certificate,      a

photo driving licence; or a certificate of naturalisation)

International students: valid passport and documentation confirming immigration

permission.

INDUCTION

Your Tutor will be in touch to arrange the time to meet you. The MCR (see below) will contact

you to welcome you to Emma.

COLLEGE MATRICULATION

There is a separate letter explaining the format for the College Matriculation, which will take

place on Wednesday 23 October. Please put this date in your diary and make sure you are

free from 4.45 pm onwards. For Executive MBA students, there are different arrangements in

place and we will be in contact separately with this information.

                     St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                                  www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                3

                 ACCOMMODATION

                 If you are being accommodated by the College, then we will let you

                 know which room you have been assigned in a separate email. The

                 rents for College rooms of different grades and the Contribution to

                 Fixed Costs (CFC) are given in the rents document on the website.

The number of weeks’ payable for your rent depends on the category of your course.

If you have been assigned a College room but no longer want it, please let us know

immediately.

We review accommodation regularly and do our best to maintain high standards of

decoration and furnishing. There is further information in the Domestic Matters booklet and

the College Regulations, both of which you can find on the website in the section for new

postgraduate students, at www.emma.cam.ac.uk/teaching/freshers/grads/.

In particular there are two points that are worth emphasising

•  Please do not use sellotape (scotch-tape), blue-tac or other adhesive materials

   likely to damage the rooms.

•  Please note that you should not bring additional furniture of your own into the

   rooms or remove the furniture that is provided. This applies particularly to beds.

   If you have a medical need for a different sort of bed, then you should contact the

   Housekeeper.

The College provides pillows and duvets but not duvet covers, sheets or pillowcases, which

you need to provide yourself. Alternatively, order your college bedding package (a charge of

£15 will be added to your College account) – this includes a single sheet, single duvet cover

and pillowcase. If you wish for these items to be provided by College, prior to your arrival or

once you have moved into your room, please follow the link to the college website. Click on

Add New Request, fill in the details required, chose Household as Job type and lastly click on

Add Job on the left hand side corner of the tab. www.emma.cam.ac.uk/apps/helpdesk/

You must also provide any cutlery and crockery for use in your own room. All postgraduate

houses have communal kitchen areas but these are not intended for large-scale or elaborate

cooking and cooking implements are not provided. Please note that in order to facilitate good

relations between occupants it is essential that communal kitchen areas are kept clean.

Please also bear in mind what it is fair and reasonable to expect from cleaning staff.

In legal terms, you occupy your room under a licence from the College (i.e.not a tenancy). You

must allow anyone else to occupy your room when you are not in residence, and you must

abide by the College Regulations governing guests. In particular guests must be registered via

the online form if they stay in your room for more than one night. There are limits also on the

number of nights that guests may stay. There are College guestrooms that you may book for

your guests by emailing guestrooms@emma.cam.ac.uk.

ABSENCE FROM COLLEGE

If ever you are away from Cambridge for more than a day or two, please leave an address at

which you can be contacted with either the Porters or the Tutorial and Admissions

                 St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                      www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                                     4

        Administrator in the Tutorial Office. If you don’t do this, we can’t be

        responsible for unsuccessful attempts to communicate with you. It is

        also courteous to let the Porters know when you will be absent so that

        they can deal with enquiries from visitors and friends more easily and

        know how to proceed in an emergency.

POSTGRADUATE TUTORS

The College is responsible for the general welfare of postgraduate students, including

problems with accommodation, etc. One function of the Postgraduate Tutors is to look after

these matters, and it is important that you should feel free to approach us at any time on any

matter that is of concern to you.

I will be Tutor to all postgraduates with surnames beginning A-H, Clare Pettitt to those with

surnames beginning I-P and Cathie Rae will be Tutor to those with surnames beginning R-Z.

We would like to see all the new postgraduate students for whom we will be responsible

soon after the beginning of term, as mentioned above. You can contact us by email at any

time.

The Tutorial Office can deal with many straightforward enquiries, e.g. provision of application

forms or letters confirming status.

YOUR FACULTY OR DEPARTMENT

For most postgraduate students it is the University, rather than the College, that provides

teaching and facilities for research in the way of laboratories and libraries. The pattern of

your relationship with your supervisor (if you have one) and those who teach you will vary

between courses, but it is important to establish a good working relationship with people in

your department at an early stage and, if you are unhappy with the way your studies are

going, that you raise it earlier rather than later.

The College can often intervene to help this relationship work smoothly. Tutors are aware of

the difficulties experienced by postgraduates, and are most willing to talk to you if you are

experiencing problems in getting started, or indeed at any other time.

MCR

The MCR (short for Middle Combination Room) is both a physical room (in Furness Lodge)

and the community of postgraduate students at Emmanuel. The room has newspapers,

computers, a television, tea and coffee-making facilities, a pool table and some games

available for use. The MCR Committee is an elected postgraduate student body, which, as

well as running the MCR, also organises postgraduate activities within the College and

represents the views of postgraduates to the major College Committees. Postgraduates and

their families are an important part of the College community and we hope that you will

yourself play a full part in the general well-being of the community and make full use of all

the facilities that the College offers.

DINING

Inevitably, eating and drinking provide many of the opportunities for social interaction. The

College kitchens are open for breakfast, lunch and dinner throughout the year except for a

        St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                                         www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                   5

              two-week period over Christmas/New Year, and over Easter and a

              three-week period in August. We hope that postgraduates will wish to

              dine regularly in Hall. At Formal Hall (7.30 pm) members of the College

              are required to wear gowns. A cafeteria system is also operated (5.45-

              7.00 pm). There are also several MCR postgraduate dinners each term

which are most enjoyable and where you can get to know your fellow students and also a

number of dinners throughout the year when you will have an opportunity to meet Fellows of

the College.

INTERNET AND COMMUNICATIONS

All postgraduate rooms have internet connections and a charge for this is included in room

rents. In most cases this is via a wireless network within the house. If you have difficulty in

connecting, or if you require specialised facilities, then the staff of the College Computer

Office can offer help and advice.

In mid August you will be contacted with your University email address (ending @cam.ac.uk)

and instructions for setting up your Raven password, which will give you access to the

password protected parts of the College and University websites. The @cam.ac.uk address

will be used in College and University communications with you and so it is important that

you check it regularly, or make appropriate forwarding arrangements.

The more traditional sort of mail can be addressed to you at ‘Emmanuel College, St Andrew’s

Street, Cambridge, CB2 3AP’ and any letter will be put in your pigeon-hole (in the post room).

Parcels and luggage will be kept for you in the Porters’ Lodge. Internal post within the College

is also delivered to the pigeon-holes, and it is important that you clear your pigeon-hole

regularly.

BICYCLES AND MOTOR CARS

Cambridge is a very crowded city. There are lots of bicycles, so these have to be numbered to

keep track of them. You also need to have a special reason to keep a car in Cambridge.

Bicycles may be kept in the College bicycle sheds, and must be numbered to comply with

University Regulations. Your bicycle number and a marking kit are available from the Porters’

Lodge.

No student in the University may keep, hire or use any motor vehicle, other than a moped,

without obtaining permission from both the College and the University. The College will

normally only grant permission to keep a car in Cambridge if you have a good reason for doing

so. All cars must have an allocated parking space off

the street. To apply to rent one of the College’s parking spaces, write to the Senior Tutor by

early September saying why you need to keep a car. The number of available parking places is

limited.

              St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                                   www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                         6

        INSURANCE

        The College has taken out a college-wide insurance policy that covers

        students’ personal belongings. For more details see the Domestic

        Matters document.

COLLEGE REGULATIONS

Postgraduates are expected to conform to the normal rules of the College. A copy of College

Regulations is included on the website. The term ‘Junior Members’ refers to all students of

the College both postgraduate and undergraduate. Some of the regulations apply to

undergraduates only and I hope these will be obvious. In particular, any regulation that refers

to the Normal Period of Residence (NPR) does not apply to the majority of postgraduate

students who are not restricted to NPR.

CAMSIS

The Cambridge Student Information System (CamSIS) stores student’s record from

application to graduation. Used by staff, students and alumni to manage and extract student

data. It is very important to keep information up to date such as email address, mobile

number, term time and home address. College uses your preferred email to contact you –

you can always change your preferred email. Please notify tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk

asap if you changed anything. If you don’t have and don’t want to have UK mobile number,

please add NO UK NUMBER to your phones on Camsis. Detailed information you can find

here:   www.cambridgestudents.cam.ac.uk/new-students/manage-your-student-

information/student-record/camsis/what-camsis-can-do-you

We very much look forward to welcoming you to Emmanuel.

                     St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                     www.emma.cam.ac.uk
