File: 02.MCR_Freshers_Guide_2024-25.pdf
Emmanuel Postgraduate  Freshers’ Guide 2024  Prepared by

                                             Emmanuel     College MCR

                                             0            (Table of Contents)
Table of Contents

Welcome to Emmanuel......................................................................................2

MCR Committee.................................................................................................4

How to Get Here.................................................................................................4

Freshers’ Week Schedule...................................................................................8

Meal Times in Emma Hall................................................................................8

Accommodation ..................................................................................................9

What to bring.....................................................................................................13

Do not bring…...................................................................................................16

What’s What and Who’s Who.........................................................................16

Welfare ................................................................................................................ 20

Disability ............................................................................................................ 24

Students with Families....................................................................................26

Healthy Relationships.....................................................................................26

International Students.....................................................................................33

Religion ..............................................................................................................36

Sustainability ....................................................................................................37

Computing .........................................................................................................37

Sport and other Activities...............................................................................40

Cambridge Life .................................................................................................43

Useful Websites:...............................................................................................45

                   1  (Table of Contents)
        Welcome to Emmanuel

Hello!

Emmanuel College Middle Combination Room, University of Cambridge.

Congratulations on joining Emmanuel College — ‘Emma’ as it is affectionately

known — and beginning your new postgraduate course at University of

Cambridge!

Let’s start right at the beginning, because some of you may be wondering what

Emmanuel even is — you thought you were joining Cambridge! Well, you

are. The University of Cambridge is at the same time one thing and many,

being made up of many faculties and departments, and colleges. As a

postgraduate student you will belong to both a University department,

responsible for your education, and to a College, responsible for your pastoral

care, accommodation / dining hall and an important part of your social life.

Here, we are represent the Middle Combination Room, which is both a living

room for post-graduate students and a vibrant postgraduate student body

(emmamcr.org.uk).

                   2  (Table of Contents)
We aim to uphold that our MCR might be one of the friendliest groups at

Cambridge – you do not need to know anybody at our events, just come

introduce yourself and someone will say hi back! Same goes with Catering

hall staff and the Porters. Just stop by, say you’re new, introduce yourself, and

say hi �We might need to hear your name a few times, but persist because

we are here for you.

If you’re here earlier than most folks when term begins in October, or have

any questions, drop us an email at contact@emmamcr.org.uk and we’ll

welcome you to the MCR!

Importance of Freshers Week:

As part of both aspects of our role, we run the Freshers’ Week activities for the

college. The MCR events for Freshers’ will run from Thursday 3rd October to

Sunday 13th October. Essentially Freshers’ Week is a great chance to meet the

rest of your Emma cohort at a range of fun events, from a formal dinner (which

is always followed by an interactive karaoke, Ceilidh or music night) to ‘swap’

dinners at other colleges’ MCR formal dinners to chilled out tea and cake, and

everything in between. There will also be plenty of opportunities to meet folks

and to ask questions. Importantly on the afternoon of Friday 4th October there

will also be a mandatory induction session with lots of important information

about who’s who and what’s what and how things work at Cambridge.

One date for your calendar is Tuesday 8th October: the Freshers’ Dinner,

which is free (super rare!!), starts at 7PM pre-drinks in the Old Library, with

dinner starting at 7:30PM in the Hall. No gowns necessary, but wear

something formal! Please complete this form by Wednesday 25 September

2024, if you have any dietary requirements or allergies that you wish to be

brought to the attention of the College Catering Department or if you do NOT

propose to come to the Freshers' Dinner and/or the Matriculation Dinner.

Important Resources:

The canonical resource for information about the College is the College

website. The documents at www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/documents are a

comprehensive compilation. The important one is the Domestic Matters

document.  For        information     from  the  University,                       see

www.cambridgestudents.cam.ac.uk.

                                   3             (Table of Contents)
A current Emmanuel postgraduate student (known as a Duck) is assigned to

each fresher (Duckling). Ducks are happy to answer questions about

Cambridge and College. Once you arrive in Cambridge, your Duck will

arrange to meet all of their Ducklings.

Postgraduate students at Emma come from a wide range of backgrounds and

spend their time in Cambridge doing an even wider range of things. As you

peruse these pages, we hope you feel the same excitement about your time

here that we do every day. We look forward to meeting you very soon indeed!

— Tung H. Nguyen, MCR President, 3rd Yr PhD Chemistry, NIH-Cambridge

MD/PhD Program. Hometown: Washington DC, United States.

MCR Committee

The MCR Committee (https://www.emmamcr.org.uk/about-us/current-

committee) is here to put on events for the MCR to enjoy and help with the

wellbeing of the graduate community. If you are unsure about something,

then please do let us know!

MCR President      president@emmamcr.org.uk              Dylan Cuskelly

Vice President     vice-president@emmamcr.org.uk         Lukas Pin

Treasurer          treasurer@emmamcr.org.uk              Madeline Ohl

Secretary          secretary@emmamcr.org.uk              Jackie Toussaint

Welfare Officer    welfare@emmamcr.org.uk                Minnal Balaji

Social Secretary   social@emmamcr.org.uk                 Soniya Gupta-Rawal

Families’ Officer  families@emmamcr.org.uk               Sam Mitchell

Minorities         minorities@emmamcr.org.uk             Nmeso Egwuekwe

Coalition Officer

International      international@emmamcr.org.uk          Sebastian Pujalte

Student Officer                                          Ojeda

How to Get Here

Address: Emmanuel College, St Andrews Street, Cambridge, CB2 3AP

Contact: Porters’ Lodge 01223 334200 (porters@emma.cam.ac.uk)

Emmanuel       College  is   situated       in  central  Cambridge.         Visit

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/contact/ for directions and for an interactive

map visit www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/discover/. The front gate to college is

                                         4                      (Table of Contents)
only open between 6am and midnight, so if your transport is delayed and you

will be arriving outside this time, ring to let them know.

Upon arrival visit Emmanuel College Porters’ Lodge, located at the main

entrance to college, to collect your room key and university card. If you are

driving to Barnwell, you will also need to collect a gate key from the porters

in order to access the drive. There will also be some documents to collect,

including our printed guide.

Directions to the Main College Site

By Train

Direct trains to Cambridge are available from a number of locations. From

London (Kings Cross and Liverpool Street) trains leave half-hourly

throughout the day, with tickets available at the station. Timetables are at

www.nationalrail.co.uk and on the Trainline app. We highly recommend you

get a Rail Card for a third of discount which will pay itself off very quickly:

https://www.nationalrail.co.uk/railcards/national-railcards/. See the map for

directions from the railway station to Emma. It’s a 15-minute walk: straight

down Station Rd, turn right onto Hills Rd. and continue into the city centre

                                     5                      (Table of Contents)
(and Emma). Buses run to the city centre (with a stop right outside the College)

every 10 minutes, and there’ll be plenty of taxis available. To book in advance,

try Panther at 01223 715 715.

By Bus or Coach

National Express, Stagecoach and MegaBus run coach services from most

major locations in the country (including airports) to Cambridge. These will

arrive at Parker’s Piece (Parkside stop), the large open space adjacent to

College. For timetables and prices, see www.nationalexpress.com or

www.uk.megabus.com.        For  more          maps  of  the  University,  visit

www.cam.ac.uk/map. For local buses, the main bus station is located at

Drummer Street, also next to the College.

By Air

The closest airport to Cambridge is London Stansted. A direct train, as well as

buses, connect it to Cambridge (~40 minutes). If coming from outside Europe,

London Heathrow is usually the 1st port of call. National Express offers direct

coaches to Cambridge from both Heathrow and Gatwick.

By Car

If driving into Cambridge, you should be aware that a large number of the

roads in the centre are one-way streets. Also be aware that there will be a lot

of cyclists. On some one-way streets, cyclists alone may travel in both

directions; these streets aren’t always marked. While parking outside the main

entrance to Emma is not possible, Emmanuel has short term parking available

with access from Park Terrace, Parker Street and Emmanuel Street. If in need

of help finding the parking access or opening the gates, seek assistance at the

College’s Porters’ Lodge.

                                           6                 (Table of Contents)
College Map

The blue arrows indicate the entrances, by car, to the College. You must report

to the Porters’ Lodge upon arrival. There will always be friendly people on

hand and happy to help if you get lost so don’t worry too much.

             7                                                   (Table of Contents)
Freshers’ Week Schedule

The Emmanuel College MCR has a week of events and activities planned to

help you get the lay of the land. We have a provisional schedule given on the

separate Induction Programme in your pack; the latest version will be

available at www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/

If you arrive early, email contact contact@emmamcr.org.uk and we’ll make

sure you get invited along to events in the lead up to this week. Keep an eye

on your emails and the MCR Facebook page for updates, changes and more

information on the Freshers’ activities.

Meal Times in Emma Hall

The Dining Hall in front court is open in full term at the following times:

Meal           Time                           Day

Breakfast      8.15am – 9.15am                Mon – Sat

Lunch          12.15pm – 1.30pm               Mon – Fri

Brunch         10.30am – 12.30pm              Sun

Informal Hall  5.45pm – 7.00pm                Daily

Formal Hall    7.30pm                         Daily except Wednesday

                                              (Gown must be worn)

Detailed information on how to book the            place  can  be  found     here:

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/facilities/catering/

                                          8                        (Table of Contents)
Accommodation

Policies can be found in documents titled Domestic Matters            on  the  College

website           under       Accommodation                      and           Finance

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/

If your course is longer than one year (e.g. PhD) you will be eligible to be

included in a ballot for rooms in subsequent year that is held in February each

year. College rooms are single dormitory-style rooms, with shared kitchens,

bathrooms and common areas. Couples’ flats are self-contained and available

by waitlist. Most houses have a Bedder who will empty communal bins,

vacuum, and clean in communal areas. Onsite accommodation (including

Park Terrace) has been designed for residents to use the Hall for food and the

centralised laundry service.

Rent

Rent is calculated based on the grade of room, distance from college, year of

arrival and inflation in subsequent years. The figures below apply for students

joining the college this year, living on the main College site.

               Room  grade    Maximum   weekly  rent  for  2024/2025

               1              £ 153.45

               2              £ 165.87

               3              £ 178.17

               4              £ 190.48

               5              £ 202.79

               6              £ 215.21

               7              £ 227.51

               8              £ 239.82

For everyone living in College accommodation, a Contribution to Fixed Costs

(CFC) is included in the rent. In exchange for paying this charge, food at

Informal Hall is discounted. Those who live closer to College pay a higher

CFC than those who live further away as it’s expected they’ll eat in Hall more

often. Those who live out of College accommodation and in couples’ flat don’t

pay CFC and therefore don’t have any discount. Please note, that you will be

charged from the date agreed in your accommodation email, not the actual

arrival date.

                                        9                             (Table of Contents)
The Cambridge Students’ Union (CSU) provides some information for private

rental (www.cambridgesu.co.uk/resources/guides/housingtoolkit/). You can

also search here: www.accommodation.cam.ac.uk/

Insurance

The college-wide insurance policy (included in rent) will be added onto your

college bill for the time that you are in residence and covers most common

items in a student’s room. It also covers bikes up to £200, and extra items like

musical instruments can be added for a small extra charge. Details can be

found at https://www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/documents/ (Raven required).

First Payment

You will have been asked to pay the First Payment before arrival into

Cambridge; this is not a deposit as charged in the private rental sector. The

First Payment is based on an average term’s rent and meals, and will be

refunded against your final College bill, minus any outstanding charges. If

you have any issues with payment, you should contact one of the

Postgraduate Tutors (see College Welfare Contacts).

College Postgraduate Properties

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/accommodation/

Park Lodge (CB1 1JJ)

This is on the East corner of the main College site. Park on Park Terrace while

you collect your card and keys, and then you may be able to park up outside

the front of the property while you make the move.

2 Park Terrace (CB1 1JH)

This is halfway between Parker St and Regent St. Park on Park Terrace while

you collect your card and keys, and then you may be able to park up outside

the front of the property while you make the move.

Barnwell Hostel, 43 Newmarket Road (CB5 8EG)

Access to Barnwell is by university card so before leaving the Porters’ Lodge

make sure your card is activated and working. You will also need the gate key

if driving. Continue along Park Terrace (a one-way street), with Parker’s Piece

on your right and College your left. Turn right onto Parkside. At the

crossroads at the end of Parker’s Piece take the left filter onto East Rd. At the

end of East Rd. is a large roundabout; take the 1st exit (left) onto Newmarket

Rd. Barnwell Hostel is on the right-hand side of the road, about 250 m from

the roundabout.

                                 10                     (Table of Contents)
1 Cutter Ferry Lane (CB4 1JR)

Start as though driving to Barnwell Hostel (above) but at the Newmarket Road

roundabout take the 2nd exit onto Elizabeth Way, crossing the river. Take the

1st exit at the next roundabout onto Chesterton Rd, the 1st left onto De Freville

Avenue, 4th left onto Aylestone Rd., right onto Belvoir Rd. and then follow

the road round onto Manhattan Dr Cutter Ferry House is at the end of this

road, to the left of the bridge. It’s blue and white. Access to the gate is by

university card, so make sure to check it’s working once you collect it from the

Porters.

33 and 43 Tenison Road (CB1 2DG)

Visit the Porters’ Lodge to collect keys. There is room for drop-off at the front

of each property. Driving from the car park off Park Terrace: turn left along

Park Terrace. At the end of the street turn right onto Parkside. At the junction

go straight on to Mill Road. Take the 2nd right after 400m, to Covent Garden,

and then the 1st left after the pub onto Cross Street. Continue across the next

two junctions to reach Tenison Rd. 33 is to the left; 43 the right.

Blantyre Hostel (24-28 Glisson Rd, CB1 2HF)

Located at the junction of Glisson Road and Gresham Road. Your card must

be activated at the Porters’ Lodge. Head on Park Terrace towards Parkside,

turn right onto Parkside. Continue onto Mill Road. Turn right onto Covent

Garden, turn left onto Mill St. Turn right onto Glisson Rd. It will be on the left.

285 and 287 Hills Road (CB2 8RP)

Accommodation here is reserved for medics.

Parking Space

Once your room is allocated The Head Porter Mr      Stephen   Montgomery will

send      you  an  email       with    information   about           parking  space

(sm878@emma.cam.ac.uk). The fee is £30 per term.

Exeat System

Exeat form is for the use of Emmanuel Postgraduate Students who are leaving

Cambridge      permanently     and/or  are   vacating  their         College-owned

accommodation, if they finish one course and start another one next academic

year      or       withdrawing         from     the    current                course.

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/facilities/accommodation/exeat/graduates/

(Raven required)

                                       11                            (Table of Contents)
College Properties Map

                        12  (Table of Contents)
What to bring

Documents

UK residents should bring a passport as it is needed for an identity check at

the beginning of your studies and if you want to be paid by the college for

teaching or bar work. It is also needed as proof of ID for registering with some

GP services.

All students starting a new postgraduate degree must visit the Tutorial

Office (Ground floor, B staircase) with valid ID and visa. Please do this

between 8.30am – 5pm on Thursday 3rd, Friday 4th or Wednesday 9th October

2024. Email tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk with any questions. If you are

starting in Lent or Easter Term - as soon as you arrive to UK.

UK students - UK passport (if you do not have a passport, provide your full

birth certificate along with a photo driving licence).

International students (original documents) - a valid passport and

documentation confirming immigration permission along with the proof of

entry into the UK (boarding pass).

Vaccination

You’ll need to register for medical services (which you must do once you

arrive). Details about recommended vaccination you can find here:

https://www.studentsupport.cam.ac.uk/communicable-diseases and on the

NHS        website  www.nhs.uk/conditions/vaccinations/pages/men-acwy-

vaccine.aspx. This can be done before arrival in Cambridge.

For Dress

Bring some warm clothes for the fall and winter, including a good winter coat

and plenty of jumpers. The weather in Britain is often quite variable, so be

prepared for your daily downpour (umbrellas for the walkers, waterproof

trousers for the cyclists).

Formal Wear

For Matriculation in October, the dress code is either a dark suit and white

shirt, a dark skirt with a white blouse, or a dark dress. The MCR also holds

fortnightly formal dinners where dresses and suits are appropriate. More

                                    13                          (Table of Contents)
formal Black-Tie dinners are organised in the autumn/fall and spring, for

which you will need a formal dress or dinner jacket.

Gowns are required for many college functions and should be worn at MCR

formal dinners. The Porters’ Lodge often have second-hand gowns to buy in

the first week or two of term. Gowns can also be purchased second-hand from

the Graduate Union or new from Ryder and Amies, 22 King’s Parade

(www.ryderamies.co.uk). New gowns can cost from £60–190.

College Room

College accommodation provides each student a single room equipped with

a bed, coffee table, desk, lamp, chair, bookshelf, rubbish bins (recycling and

general), and drawers or wardrobe. Some rooms will include a small

refrigerator (or access to one in a nearby kitchen). Some rooms have few power

outlets, so bring a strip multiplug adaptor (non-strip style is banned in

college). You are not allowed to sublet your room while you are away or

copy the room key. Overnight external guest (non-members) must be register

if  staying       for  more       than                one  night                via

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/facilities/accommodation/visitor/               (Raven

required). Only one guest is allowed at a time. Detailed information about

visitors can be found in the document called College Regulations, you can find

it          here       under            Other                           Information:

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/

You will need to provide your own bed linen (college beds are single size),

although a single duvet and pillow are provided. You can request a bedding

package prior to arrival or once you move into your room. The bedding

package include a single sheet, duvet cover and one pillowcase and is priced

at £15 charged to your College bill. Please follow the link to the college

website: www.emma.cam.ac.uk/apps/helpdesk/ (Raven required). Click on

Add New Request, fill in the details required, choose Household as Job type

and lastly click on ‘Add Job’ on the left-hand side corner of the tab.

There are many shops within walking distance of Emma where you might find

additional linens and blankets. A hoover/vacuum can be found in your

property, but basic cleaning supplies such as wipes or disposable towels may

be useful.

                              14                                        (Table of Contents)
Kitchen

All postgraduate houses have their own kitchens, so it is advisable to bring

some basic kitchen items if you intend to be cooking regularly, e.g. plate, bowl,

cups, cutlery. However, kitchens are shared between several postgraduate

students so there may be some communal crockery available that has been left

by previous students.

Laundry

There are 3 washing machines + drier in the college for postgrads in the North

Court. Please book a slot at the Porters’ Lodge. You may want an airing rack,

this is especially handy for airing sports gear. Each Emma student can have

one 4.5kg bag laundered per week in the Laundry Service (East Court).

Bookings must be made via CASC (Raven needed). You can find ‘How to

Book’ instruction here: www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/facilities/roombooking/

Drop off Laundry bags: Monday to Wednesday, 7am to 12pm.

Sports

Emmanuel has several free sports facilities, including an indoor gym, squash

courts, tennis courts, football and rugby pitches, a cricket pitch, ping pong,

croquet, and an outdoor swimming pool. It is advisable to bring appropriate

sports gear and proper shoes for these activities. The local area is ideal for

cycling. Squash racquets and balls are available at the MCR and tennis

racquets are available at the Porters’ Lodge for student use.

Transport

Most students find a bike very helpful. Make sure you bring or buy a sturdy

D lock, lights, and a helmet. Repair tools and emergency bike lights are

available in the Porters’ Lodge. Bike theft is a problem in Cambridge so you

may not want to bring a bike that would be expensive to replace. Second-hand

bicycles can be purchased in several shops in town and new bikes are on sale

at the Freshers’ Fair on Parker’s Piece.

If you intend to cycle in Cambridge it is probably worth joining

www.cyclinguk.org, who offer third party liability insurance to all members.

The        college’s   Health             &   Safety           Handbook               (at

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/documents) has some advice on cycling.

Railcard

If you’re interested in cheap train travel, you can apply at www.railcard.co.uk/

or a train station for a 16-25 Railcard to get 33% off all rail fares for a year. If

                                          15                   (Table of Contents)
you’re aged between 16 to 25 years old, you’ll need a passport photo and proof

of your date of birth (e.g. passport, UK driving licence, birth certificate or, for

non-UK nationals, national identity card). If you’re over 25 but studying full-

time, you still qualify but need proof that you’re in full time education. In

addition, there's also a 26-30 Railcard that might be suitable for the students’

partners who don’t qualify for the student Railcard.

Do not bring…

YOU WON’T NEED A CAR. More specifically, you are not allowed to keep a

car in Cambridge without permission from your Tutor (see the University

Proctors’ pronouncement at www.proctors.cam.ac.uk

and      www.proctors.cam.ac.uk/documents, specifically concerning motor

vehicle  www.proctors.cam.ac.uk/documents/motor-proctor-4-2.pdf).                    Car

parking is expensive and unreliable.

DON’T BRING A PET as they are not allowed in College accommodation.

DON’T BRING NETWORKING EQUIPMENT, as all accommodation has

Wi-Fi.

Finally, college is fairly  strict    on      furniture  —  so  NO   BEDS            OR

MATTRESSES EITHER.

Refer         to            Domestic                        Matters                  at

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/

What’s What and Who’s Who

Emmanuel College

One of the 31 colleges which together with faculties and departments make

up the University. Emmanuel was founded in 1584 and is home to some 500

undergraduates, 270 postgraduates, 90 fellows and 150 staff.

The MCR Room

The common space for postgraduates is located on the first floor of the Furness

Lodge. Come here to read, watch our TV, browse the internet, print, or relax

with a hot drink. Access is via university card.

                                          16                         (Table of Contents)
Porters

The Porters are extremely helpful, welcoming and professional. If you need

keys, have large or valuable packages waiting, or want to book a Squash

Court, then the Porters’ Lodge is truly the place for you. The PLodge is staffed

all day, but the front gate is closed between midnight and 6am. The Porters

deal with the occasional emergency that crops up in college and are a good

first port of call. porter@emma.cam.ac.uk

Master

Doug Chalmers, DSO, OBE is Master of Emmanuel College. He chairs the

bodies which govern the college, represents the college beyond the University,

and officiates at events such as Matriculation and Graduation.

masterspa@emma.cam.ac.uk

Senior Tutor

The Senior Tutor, Dr Corinna Russell, has overall responsibility for the

education and welfare of Emmanuel students. She is responsible for the

academic and pastoral aspects of the college, including admission of students,

access,  outreach   initiatives  and       recruitment  of  teaching     fellows

(cr215@emma.cam.ac.uk)

Bursar

Financial Office of the college, but Ms Catherine Webb is also responsible for

the college’s duties under the General Data Protection Regulation, and the

College’s alcohol licence. Ms Webb is responsible for all buildings and services

at the College (bursary@emma.cam.ac.uk)

Dean

The Revd. Jeremy Caddick organises the Chapel Services and Christian

Community at Emmanuel and has a pastoral role in the college. He is also a

Postgraduate Tutor and the Praelector, which you’ll discover at graduation

(jlc24@cam.ac.uk).  You   can    read          Dean’s   welcome  letter  here:

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/

Tutorial Office

The Tutorial Office is at the bottom of B staircase, in the Front Court. It is

easiest to contact the Office by e-mail. If you need to visit in person, plan to do

so between 10am-12.00pm and 1.30pm-3:30pm Monday through Friday.

tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk

                                           17                    (Table of Contents)
The Postgraduate Administrator, Anna Krupinska, will be able to help with

accommodation queries and any straightforward official paperwork you

might require that you cannot find via your CamSIS Homepage

www.camsis.cam.ac.uk Use this link to require Bank Verification Letter

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/verificationrequests/i

ndex.cfm (Raven NOT required) and Verification Documents Request

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/documents/verification/ for any other documents

(Raven required).

The  Senior  Tutor’s     Secretary,  Mrs    Marion    Dorkings      (tutorial-

office@emma.cam.ac.uk, 1st Floor, B staircase), manages College Meeting

Room Bookings (www.emma.cam.ac.uk/conferences/booking/form/) and the

University Cards (unicard@emma.cam.ac.uk).

The College Registrar Dr Anna Osipova (college-registrar@emma.cam.ac.uk),

runs the Tutorial and Postgraduate Admissions Office. She is in charge of all

student records and is the Secretary to the Master and Tutors’ Committee. She

is the first person to contact if you have been unable to get in touch with your

Postgraduate Tutor, feel your query is complicated or your situation requires

special attention (e.g. questions of immigration, disability, changes in your

private circumstances).

Emma Experience

Learn how to make the magic happen at Emmanuel. Emma Experience is your

own personal toolkit of extras, a co-curricular programme, to help you thrive

here and now in Cambridge at Emmanuel and when you head out into the

world. We’re here to help you discover your passions, learn new skills and

unlock your potential to change the world; to create, make, do, lead, innovate,

and  renew.              Emma  Experience        has     4          branches:

Wellbeing, Community, Skills and Careers.   There’s   2  ways       to            get

involved: Freedom (pick  and   choose      what  you  want      to  attend)

or Certificate (get your experience and participation recognised and unlock

benefits). Opportunities and events including talks by movers and shakers,

wellbeing and skills workshops, careers and mentoring sessions, tours,

masterclasses, a fitness programme and much more. Follow us on Instagram

at @emmaexperience1584, keep an eye out for The Acorn a regular digest

newsletter of events and opportunities that gets sent straight to your inbox.

More about Emma Experience can be found here: www.emmaexperience.uk

                                     18                     (Table of Contents)
Emmanuel Society & Development Office

First floor of D staircase and is run by Dr Sarah Bendall and her team. The

Emmanuel Society is the alumni-led society for all members of the College.

The Society organises two careers events a year (Michaelmas and Lent terms)

for students, when groups of alumni return to College to give advice and

guidance about careers, CVs, jobs and life after Emma. The Society also

organises a lot of events for members. If you see an event advertised and

would like to attend, please contact emmanuel-society@emma.cam.ac.uk.

The Development Office’s role is to keep in touch with members and to help

support students and the College in general. A lot of funding for students,

such as bursaries, grants and overall support, is raised by the Development

Office, as well as funds for maintaining the buildings and grounds, teaching

and   research,       and  other  College  purposes,        development-

office@emma.cam.ac.uk.

Maintenance

Buildings Manager

David Hobbs manages all building  work across the college.  You should email

maintenance@emma.cam.ac.uk if     you have feedback for     us to provide for

him.

Maintenance Manager

You may encounter Maintenance Manager, Darran Kerry when             there is

maintenance work to be done, maintenance@emma.cam.ac.uk

Please report problems as soon as possible, using the       college    website

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/apps/helpdesk (Raven required)

Housekeeping

Housekeeper

The Head of Housekeeping, Donna Bass is responsible for furnishings and the

Bedders. The office is at the bottom of K staircase, in the Hostel,

household@emma.cam.ac.uk.

IT

Information Services

The Head of Department, Tom Corder and his team are always happy to help.

                                  19                        (Table of Contents)
If you have any enquiry, please      report the      problems via helpdesk

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/apps/helpdesk         (Raven      required)  or       email

is@emma.cam.ac.uk

Welfare

IN CASE OF AN EMERGENCY IN COLLEGE ALWAYS GO TO THE

PORTERS’ LODGE FIRST. They are your first point of contact and always

able  to  help.      You  can  find  important       contact    details  here:

https://apps.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/welfare/emergency/

The primary role of College is to ensure the wellbeing and welfare of all

students throughout their time at Emma. Welfare at Emmanuel College

concerns a broad range of topics with a variety of resources, channels and

people who are here to help you through your studies. Postgraduate study is

not always easy, but in the right environment, and with the right support

networks, it can be both manageable and enjoyable.

Acute financial and accommodation issues are common, and academic

difficulties (in particular concerning careers) are faced by almost everybody at

some point. The college is an environment in which people feel comfortable

discussing all these challenges and the various resources it offers can often be

a great starting point towards resolving them.

Should you have any queries or concerns regarding welfare at Emmanuel

College or any pre-arrival access or support requirements, contact the College

Registrar (college-registrar@emma.cam.ac.uk). You should also always feel

free to reach out to the MCR Welfare Officers at welfare@emmamcr.org.uk or

other members of the MCR Welfare Team.

College Welfare

The Tutorial System

The College has a statutory duty and many years of experience concerning

issues facing postgraduate students. This mainly occurs through the tutorial

system; Tutors, who are academics and Fellows of the College, individually

respond to welfare issues and collectively plan to prevent their occurrence.

The University has produced a concise description of how this tutorial

support works, www.studentsupport.cam.ac.uk/.

There are three Tutors whose main focus concerns postgraduate students, yet

anyone may approach any Tutor with any issue. Many undergraduate Tutors

                                     20                         (Table of Contents)
supervise masters and PhD students so are keenly aware of situations

postgraduate students face.

In addition to reacting to welfare issues, Tutors can help proactively with

topics such as career direction and conference funding; if there is something

you might need during your time as a student, you should definitely ask.

More      about  funding     opportunities       you      can  find  here:

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/funding/                                  and

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/welfare/funding/graduates/ (Raven needed)

MCR Welfare Team - Can be found on the MCR Committee section of this

booklet.

College Welfare Contacts

Senior Tutor

Dr Corinna Russell – cr215@emma.cam.ac.uk, 01223 334 212

Postgraduate Tutors

The Revd. Jeremy Caddick - jlc24@cam.ac.uk, 01223 334 264

Jeremy is the College Dean and Chaplain and plays a major role in college

welfare. He is the Tutor for all postgraduates with last names beginning A to

H and you will normally be contacted by him at the start of your studies if that

includes you.

Professor Clare Pettitt - cp240@cam.ac.uk, 01223 335 719

Clare is a professor of English a Postgraduate Tutor for   students  with         last

names beginning I to P.

Professor Catherine Rae - cr18@cam.ac.uk, 01223 742 973

Cathie is an energy researcher and a Postgraduate Tutor for students with last

names beginning R to Z.

Advisor to Women Students - Dr Devon Curtis dc403@cam.ac.uk

Advisors on Ethnic and Racial Minority Affairs - Dr Syamala Roberts

sar75@cam.ac.uk and Dr Saite Lu sl590@cam.ac.uk

You may contact any Tutor with any issue you     have:

Dr Julie Barrau – jb534@cam.ac.uk

Prof. Bill Broadhurst – rwb1002@cam.ac.uk

                                   21                          (Table of Contents)
Prof. Phil Howell – pmh1000@cam.ac.uk

Prof. Alex Jeffrey – asj38@cam.ac.uk

Prof. Alexandre Kabla – ajk61@cam.ac.uk

Dr Emma Mackinnon – em724@cam.ac.uk

Dr Kate Spence – kes1004@cam.ac.uk

Dr Nigel Spivey – njs11@cam.ac.uk

Dr Ross Wilson – rmw24@cam.ac.uk

College Nurse

Mrs Diana Lloyd - nurse@emma.cam.ac.uk or dwl25@cam.ac.uk, 01223 334296

The Nurse maintains a small Sick Bay on E staircase, treats minor illness and

injury, and refers on where applicable. She is available for room visits and can

be consulted on all health-related matters. Times are posted up in the Porters’

Lodge. For an appointment outside these times, please email Mrs Lloyd.

College Counsellor

Mr  Tim  Ellis      -  counselling    form,  counsellor@emma.cam.ac.uk            or

the24@cam.ac.uk

The counselling room is at 55 St Andrews Street, the entrance is in college in

Chapman's Gardens. Use your card to enter the building or press the

Counsellor button. Once inside, take the first door on your left and go up the

back staircase. There is a waiting room on your left; the Counsellor will come

and meet you there.

                                       22    (Table of Contents)
Tim, is in College two or three days a week during term time. He is also

available out of term. To make an enquiry or request an appointment, it is best

to email him. He offers appointments during the day and early evening and

will try to offer a convenient time. Appointments are usually 50 minutes long

and take place in person in College. The waiting time varies but is usually

within two weeks from the time you first contact him. Please find a letter from

Tim here: www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/ under

Support & Pastoral Care.

The University Counselling Service

The Counselling Service is also available to students, offering a wide range of

free services including individual or group counselling, workshops on

common problems faced by students www.counselling.cam.ac.uk

Sexual Health

Free sexual health supplies are available in the MCR welfare box. It is located

in the MCR (Furness Lodge) and the Pigeonhole Room. Pregnancy tests can

be collected from the MCR welfare box or requested anonymously via

www.cambridge.nightline.ac.uk. You can also reach out to the Welfare or

Women’s Officers to discuss any issues related to sexual health. Free

contraception and STI screening are available at: The Lime Tree Clinic,

Brookfields Hospital, 351 Mill Road, Cambridge CB1 3DF. Request at-home

STI kit online: www.letstalkaboutit.nhs.uk

                                    23                       (Table of Contents)
Prescription Reimbursement

Students can apply to claim reimbursement prescription charges – both

single issue and pre-payment certificates on the website: : prescription

reimbursement form. You will be asked to complete the form and include a

receipt for the charges and your bank details. Please make sure that you only

include the receipt and not the prescription or any details of your health

condition. The completed form will be sent to the Bursar for approval and

once approved will be paid into your account.

Disability

Emmanuel College is committed to ensuring that all postgraduate students

with a disability receive the support they need to fully participate in

Cambridge life and do not face any discrimination. You can contact your

Postgraduate   Tutor,  or   the  MCR’s         Disabled   Students’         Rep,

(disabilities@emmamcr.org.uk) whose role is to represent all students with

any visible or invisible condition. We also encourage anyone with a disability

to contact the College Disability Liaison Officer before you arrive for any

specific advice or information, and to ensure there is appropriate support

upon arrival.

College Disability Liaison Officer - college-registrar@emma.cam.ac.uk

In practice at Cambridge, the definition of ‘disability’ includes a wide range

of conditions such as

●  Mental health conditions i.e., anxiety, depression, and BPD

●  Autism spectrum conditions

●  Sensory impairments i.e., hearing and visual

●  Specific learning difficulties i.e., dyslexia or ADHD

●  Physical impairments and injuries i.e., wheelchair users and upper

   limb disorder

●  Long-standing conditions i.e., cancer, HIV, chronic fatigue, epilepsy,

   syndrome, diabetes

There are many resources available within the University for disabled

students. It is important to note that you are not required to self-define as

disabled in order to access this support and you have complete control over

disclosure of your disability to different departments and faculties. Support

is mainly accessed through the Accessibility and Disability Resource Centre

                                 24                       (Table of Contents)
(ADRC) www.disability.admin.cam.ac.uk - Student Services Centre, Bene't

St, Cambridge CB2 3PT, disability@admin.cam.ac.uk, 01223 332301

Emmanuel has their own disability advisor at the ADRC and they will be able

to discuss with you any support that you may benefit from as well as

reasonable adjustments for your studies, which there is a legal requirement

for the University to put in place for you. This support can take any form from

changes to your living or learning environment, or to particular provisions,

criteria or practices (e.g. placing automatic doors at the entrance to your

faculty building, providing large print materials, extra time or rest breaks in

exams, specialist mentoring etc.).

It may be useful or necessary to have an occupational health assessment in

your new department. Be sure to check whether you should self-refer or if a

management referral is needed www.oh.admin.cam.ac.uk/services/referral-

process

For additional needs (travel costs or specialist ergonomic equipment) you can

also apply to the following (may take several months so apply early):

-        UK Nationals can apply to Disabled Students Allowance.

         www.gov.uk/disabled-students-allowances-dsas/overview

-        EU and International Students can apply to the International Disabled

         Students’  Fund.           www.disability.admin.cam.ac.uk/funding-

         students/eu-and-international-students

Access

Each College has an access guide which can be found here:

www.disability.admin.cam.ac.uk/access-around-university/access-colleges.

All MCR events are held in locations with step free access and further access

statements can be found on each event description on our website. CUSU has

also created an for some of the pubs, cafes and leisure centres in Cambridge

Students Union Advice Service (SUAS) 17 Mill Lane, Cambridge, CB2 1RX

SUAS provides useful information about more local support and services.

www.studentadvice.cam.ac.uk and advice@studentadvice.cam.ac.uk; 01223

746999

Cambridge SU Disabled Students' Campaign - www.disabled.cusu.cam.ac.uk

                                    25                           (Table of Contents)
Students with Families

Starting a postgraduate course at Cambridge alongside maintaining daily

family life can be tough. The Emma MCR has a Families’ Officer to provide

support and advice. We aim to organise family friendly activities throughout

the year, including picnics and day trips. Please contact the MCR families

officer families@emmamcr.org.uk for any queries/concerns.

The     Graduate     Union  has       a     dedicated      Families’   Officer

families@gradunion.cam.ac.uk and runs a free weekly        parent and  toddler

group on Friday mornings and other events.

Useful       information         can        be             found       here:

www.postgraduate.study.cam.ac.uk/portal/family.

You may want to join the “Students with Families” Facebook             group

www.facebook.com/groups/353576598063536/

Healthy Relationships

Being a Fresher at Emma is exciting, particularly as we’re known for being the

friendliest college! This year you’ll have the opportunity to meet many new

people, forming friendships in Emma and in the wider Cambridge

community, getting to know college staff and working with your supervisor.

Emma is committed to being an inclusive, friendly, and safe community for

all who study and work here. As an MCR, we uphold this college ethos and

would like to take the opportunity to encourage you to consider some aspects

of postgraduate study which you may not have thought about before. These

topics will be presented and discussed in greater depth during the college

induction sessions.

New Relationships

Relationships with Supervisors and College Staff

● Consider that it may be difficult to define friendship and professional

boundaries.

● Be aware of differences between the roles of your Supervisor, Advisor,

Postgraduate Tutor and the relationships you will form with them.

● The hierarchical structures and authority within college may differ from

your undergraduate experience.

                                      26                          (Table of Contents)
●  Addressing emails or conversations can be stressful with so many

   esteemed academics around. Usually including a title and surname in the

   address is appropriate, although certain professors may encourage you to

   use first names once they reply.

●  Not all relationships will come easily. You may need to work to improve

   relations or take a more proactive role than previously experienced with

   supervisors. Remember to stay respectful and appropriate but do not be

   afraid to stand up for yourself.

Relationships within the MCR — building a successful community

● We all need to be aware of the wellbeing of others. This includes being

   patient and remembering that many people have different backgrounds

   and may suffer from invisible issues.

● The college environment is an intimate community with shared

   accommodation. Be aware of the implications of gossip.

● We live in and embrace a multicultural community. Be aware of linguistic,

   logical, and cultural hurdles that must be overcome on both sides.

● The transition from undergraduate to postgraduate study can be confusing

   and raise unexpected problems. Do not be afraid to ask for help.

Maintaining Relationships

As a postgraduate student, you may be arriving in Cambridge with a long-

term partner. Please remember that the MCR offers an associate member

status for members’ spouses or live-in partners. As an associate member of the

MCR, your partner is welcome at all of our events, even unaccompanied!

Bullying and Harassment

Emmanuel College is committed to providing a safe environment in which all

members of the College can participate freely and contribute fully without fear

for their personal security and wellbeing. A safe environment free of

harassment or threat is fundamental to the academic and social life of our

community. Sexual harassment and sexual misconduct will not be tolerated.

The College will support and assist the victim of any harassment or sexual

misconduct.

On the College website (www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/documents) you will

find official documents and policies including:

- Code of Conduct for students regarding harassment, sexual harassment,

   and sexual misconduct

                                          27               (Table of Contents)
-  College Statement on sexual harassment and sexual misconduct

-  College Advice on sexual harassment and sexual misconduct

-  Emmanuel College Guidance on, and procedures for handling cases of,

   sexual harassment or sexual misconduct raised by a student (or students)

   about another student (or students)

Any criminal behaviour will be reported to police. If you are made to feel

uncomfortable by any MCR member, please reach out for help from the

committee (particularly the Welfare Officers). You may also submit a

complaint            following          either  the              university

(www.studentcomplaints.admin.cam.ac.uk/harassment-and-sexual-

misconduct)  or      college    (www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/documentsf)

procedures.

Harassment may include verbal, physical, emotional, and sexual harassment.

Sexual harassment may include sexually charged comments or questions as

well as physical contact, including sexualized dancing or touching if consent

has not been established or is not maintained.

Consent

As well as forming friendships, you may engage in sexual relationships

during your time here, either with new partners or in an already established

relationship. Even if you are confident that you are informed about consent, it

is important that you review this section. It is vital to feel confident and safe

with your partner and to always be considerate towards them. Even in

established relationships, situations may change. Conversations about

consent are important, as they are context-specific and can be complex at

times. Below are some key ideas which should be included in this discussion:

Informed

There should be a thorough understanding about what is being asked for and

consented to. Consent to sex, for example, is not the same as consent to sex

without protection.

Mutual

Consent is communicated between all individuals involved.

                                        28                    (Table of Contents)
Active

Consent should be a continual communication between all involved, and all

should feel engaged and involved in this communication. This means that

consent is not only a one-time affirmation, but continued and repeated.

Sober/Capable

There are situations in which intoxication means consent isn’t possible: when

your partner is for example having difficulty speaking or standing. However,

everyone has different limits and boundaries, and drunkenness doesn’t

automatically invalidate consent. The best way to determine if someone

consents to sex after drinking is to check in with the person repeatedly to

ensure that they’re capable of communicating their needs. If there is ever any

doubt, confusion, or supposed mixed-messages, don’t do it.

Communicated

Use words and actions that are mutually understandable. For all sorts of

reasons people might find communicating in a certain way (e.g. verbally)

difficult. The method of communication may differ, but the message does not.

However, be wary of reading into actions. Neutral behaviour, or not saying

no, is NOT consent—consent is affirmative (e.g. “yes”).

Retractable

Consenting to one sexual act does not mean consenting to all sexual acts.

Consent can also be retracted at ANY time, and any and all sexual acts should

be stopped until consent is re-established.

Willing

Agreement can never count as consent if someone is forced. If you agree after

being threatened, this is not consent, and any sexual acts following may be

considered assault.

Alcohol

It is important to highlight that the MCR is an inclusive, diverse community

where we respect everyone’s choice whether or not to drink. You don’t need

to drink to enjoy our events and at formals we offer a discounted price for

those not drinking and non-alcoholic alternatives. It is important to be aware

of how much you are drinking and speak to someone if you feel things are

getting out of control. Remember that you are entirely responsible for your

behaviour at all times, even under the influence of alcohol or other substances.

                     29                                     (Table of Contents)
Drinks should always be enjoyed responsibly and know your limits. During

MCR events, you can also always reach out to committee members, especially

the welfare officers, if you have any concerns.

Sexual Harassment and Assault

The College will support and assist the victim of any sexual harassment or

sexual misconduct. In the event of harassment and assault, please refer to the

official documents and policies mentioned above (available on the College

website www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/documents. A few key points are

highlighted below.

In an emergency or immediately following an assault

●  Go somewhere that you feel safe.

●  If you need the Police or other services, contact them immediately              by

   dialling 999

●  The  advice      provided    by   Rape        Crisis  can  be  accessed         at

   www.rapecrisis.org.uk

In College, the Porters’ Lodge will always be a safe place from where you can

contact help and assistance. The Porter on duty will contact the Duty Tutor,

provide useful telephone numbers, or summon assistance on your behalf.

Who can you contact after an assault?

It can be difficult to talk about an assault to friends or family, yet it is very

important to have understanding and support. There are a number of different

people you may choose to contact for support and advice. There is no single

or correct route by which to seek support.

Within College the following people are available to support and advise you,

in no particular order:

   ●    Your Postgraduate Tutor

   ●    Any other Tutor who you wish to approach (Moodle for PGs –

        Tutorial Times)

   ●    The Senior Tutor

   ●    The Postgraduate Tutor

   ●    The Advisor to Women Students

   ●    The Dean

   ●    The College Counsellor

   ●    The College Nurse

   ●    MCR Women's Officer

                                       30                         (Table of Contents)
The College can assist you, and direct you to, any professional support and

counselling services that you may need. Whoever you approach, the matter

will be treated sensitively and in confidence. In addition, the Welfare Officers

of the MCR at Emmanuel College and the Welfare Officers at Cambridge SU

(www.cambridgesu.co.uk/aboutus/team/welfareandcommunityofficer)                   are

people from whom you can seek help and advice.

What can the College do to Support You?

No one should feel that they need to cope on their own, and talking to

someone about harassment or an assault is important in and of itself. This is

true whether you talk to someone soon after an incident has taken place or at

some later date.

Whoever you decide to approach in the College, they will direct you to, or

provide, the following services, as appropriate to your needs:

●  Counselling

●  Health advice and treatment (eg. pregnancy and STI screening)

●  Support for your general well-being in college

●  Adjustments to your academic work and support

●  Measures to protect your personal safety

●  Providing advice about the complaint procedures available to you

●  Respecting your confidentiality

●  Helping you to decide whether to approach the Police

●  Reporting sexual assault

●  Information about sexual assault referral centres

●  Other sources of support and advice

Useful Contact Details

Sexual Assault Referral Centres (SARC)

SARCs are specialist 24/7 services for people who have been raped or sexually

assaulted. They aim to be one-stop services, providing the following under

one roof: medical care and forensic examination following assault/rape,

counselling and — in some locations — sexual health services. Services are

free of charge and provided to all regardless of gender identity. Most SARCs

are able to offer services to anyone including those who do not wish to report

the assault to the police (‘self referrals’).

The SARC for Cambridgeshire at The Elms (www.theelmssarc.org), in

Hinchingbrooke Hospital, Huntingdon and is available 24/7 to victims by

calling 0800 193 5434.

                                               31               (Table of Contents)
For  more        information  and  a     directory       of      services,   see

www.rapecrisis.org.uk/get-help/looking-for-information/sexual-assault-

referral-centres-sarcs.

The University - offers advice to students who feel that they are being

harassed    and  to      students  who   are  accused        of   harassment.

www.studentcomplaints.admin.cam.ac.uk/harassment-sexual-misconduct

Breaking the Silence - provides information about the support and reporting

options available inside and outside of the University.

www.breakingthesilence.cam.ac.uk

The Rape and Sexual Assault Support Centre - Provides a free national

helpline on 08451 221 331. The helpline is open 12.00–2.30 pm and 7.00–9.30

pm every day of the year, providing support for female and male survivors,

partners, family and friends. Support is also available from the Emerald

Centre www.emeraldcentre.org

Cambridge Rape Crisis - Box R, 12 Mill Road, Cambridge CB1 2AD. Provides

a confidential service of support and information provided over the

telephone. www.cambridgerapecrisis.org.uk, 01223 245888

Victim Support - Provides a confidential phone line          for  support    and

information on any crime. www.victimsupport.org.uk

NHS - Provides information and advice on help and support after sexual

assault www.nhs.uk/Livewell/Sexualhealth/Pages/Sexualassault.aspx

University Counselling Service - Student Services Centre, Benet             Street,

Cambridge CB2 3PT. Professional counsellors and therapists to               whom

students can talk in order to work through issues that affect               them,

www.counselling.cam.ac.uk, 01223 332865

Cambridge SU (Cambridge Students’ Union) - Third Floor, Granta Pl, Mill

Lane, Cambridge CB2 1RU. Provides information, advocacy, resources and

support in understanding your options and going through College and

University       procedures,       www.cambridgesu.co.uk          080816412222,

enquiries@cambridgesu.co.uk

                                   32                             (Table of Contents)
Nightline - 21 Jesus Lane, Cambridge CB5 8BQ. Anonymous, confidential

helpline run by students for students (Full Term only, 7pm-7am).

www.cambridge.nightline.ac.uk            01223 367575

NHS Direct - 24-hour medical advice and information helpline 111

Police Cambridgeshire - emergencies 999

The Samaritans (Cambridge Branch) - 4 Emmanuel Road, Cambridge CB1

1JW.

Befriending  helpline  for     those         in  crisis     or    despair.

www.samaritans.org/branches/cambridge 116 126/ 0330 094 5717

International Students

Being an international student in the UK comes with challenges, privileges,

frustration and excitement. While things may seem quaintly and traditionally

British, Cambridge is also an incredibly international community, from its

student societies to the culinary delights of Mill Road. You will, no doubt, find

your feet quickly, but in the meantime your International Officer

international@emmamcr.org.uk would be glad to answer any questions you

might have about your arrival and everyday life in the UK.

International Student Team and iCUSU

The University’s International Student Team not only provides support with

your visa applications, but also collects important information for all

international students (EU and Non-EU). For students due soon in Cambridge

please visit www.internationalstudents.cam.ac.uk. Their function as a

university service is to assist with any issue related to being an international

student in the UK.

Visa

The MCR is not qualified to advise on individual visa issues; contact the

College Registrar (college-registrar@emma.cam.ac.uk). Note your visa

responsibilities (outlined at www.internationalstudents.cam.ac.uk/student-

visa-responsibilities) and expect that you may be contacted by the Tutorial

Office about them.

                                         33                       (Table of Contents)
Banking

Soon after arrival, you’ll need to set up a bank account in the UK for local

transactions. This will be a current account, with a card for withdrawals at

cashpoints (ATMs). A vast majority of the ATMs in the UK do not charge a

transaction fee. You’ll be able to organise your finances and make payments

to other UK accounts through electronic banking.

Some of the closest banks to Emmanuel include Barclays, Santander, HSBC,

Lloyds, and Metro but there are many others. Building societies provide most

banking services. Check what options they have for international students

(often, none), or students in general. Try to find a current account with no fees,

or that will let you make withdrawals and transfers without charge from a

bank in your home country.

Use the online request form on the Freshers to request a bank letter

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/verificationrequests

from the College Tutorial Office BEFORE you set up the appointment. Note

that different banks will ask for different things. The letter will probably need

to confirm that you have a guaranteed place on a course that is longer than six

months, and show your address, starting and ending dates — but make sure

to check. Please allow 3 to 5 working days for request to be processed.

Set up an appointment with a bank to open an account. Lines will be long

during Freshers’ Week so try to get there early (~30 min before it opens) to set

up the appointment as there will be a limited number of appointment spots

per day.

Also, a lot of students opt for online banks such as Monzo or Revolut

— there you can convert currencies without charge, and maintaining these

cards is also usually free! As well, you can get a single-use virtual card (also

for free) to protect online purchases.

Verification Documents

The College can provide you with various verification documents

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/documents/verification/ (Raven required). Please

allow 3 to 5 working days for request to be processed.

Council Tax

Full-time students are exempt from City Council Tax. Those is non-college

accommodation and college couple flats are responsible for making the

necessary arrangements with City Council. Detailed information available

                                        34              (Table of Contents)
here: https://www.cambridge.gov.uk/discounts-for-students-and-school-

leavers

Health Care

The National Health Service (NHS) is the UK’s state healthcare system

providing a wide range of health care services including doctor’s

appointments,  hospital          treatment  and          dental          care:

www.studentwellbeing.admin.cam.ac.uk (Raven required).

EU nationals and Tier 4 visa holders are entitled to receive certain treatment

from the NHS free of charge in General Practitioner (GP) Surgeries, health care

centres, and hospitals. This applies to your spouse and children if they are in

the UK as your visa dependants.

Non-UK European Economic Area (EEA) nationals and their family should

obtain a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before coming to the UK.

You must register with a Cambridge doctor (GP) as soon as you arrive in

Cambridge. You can find a list of local practices on the College website

(www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers).

You will need to pay for dental treatments as well as for any associated

medical prescription to be collected from a pharmacy; dental problems are not

only a pain in the mouth but also in the pocket. Students wishing to register

as an NHS dental patient locally can find out which practices in the city are

accepting NHS patients using the NHS search facility (www.nhs.uk/Service-

Search/Dentist/LocationSearch).

The College also has a nurse who is available during term time to offer advice

to students (nurse@emma.cam.ac.uk). For further details about the full range

of medical support available within College, ask at the Porters’ Lodge (01223

334 200).

If you are living on site and require urgent emergency medical assistance

and are unable to travel to the hospital, contact the Porters’ Lodge

immediately and the duty Porter will call for an ambulance and then attend

regarding first aid if needed. If living in offsite accommodation call 999 and

then call the Porters’ Lodge to inform the duty Porter.

                                 35                      (Table of Contents)
Phones

Almost all the major phone companies will provide you with a pay-as-you-go

SIM card for free, which you can top up as you need. Nearby Emmanuel, you

can check out options at mobile stores like the Carphone Warehouse , or

individual carriers like Three , Vodafone , EE , O2 . Mobile phone contracts are

available but often require credit history. A popular alternative for both PAYG

or contract options is to use online mobile companies like Giffgaff or

Talkmobile, which send you your SIM card by mail. Bring along an unlocked

phone, insert the SIM card, and you should be good to go.

Religion

Emmanuel welcomes anyone, regardless of religious affiliation. Listed below

are a few places within and near college that may be of interest.

Emmanuel Chapel

The Chapel is located straight in front of you as you come through the main

College gate. There are services each Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday

evenings led by the Dean, The Revd Jeremy Caddick (jlc24@cam.ac.uk) — see

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/chapel. All members of Emma and their friends are

welcome. If you are interested in reading in chapel services then get in touch

with the Dean, who is always happy to have more volunteers.

Reflection Room

There is a multi-faith reflection room that is open to anyone for quiet prayer

and contemplation, located in Emmanuel House.

Additionally, there are several religious organizations within Emmanuel

College and in the university. We’ve listed a few below, but all registered

religious societies at the University of Cambridge can also be found at

www.cambridgesu.co.uk/organisation.

Christian Graduate Society: www.cucgs.soc.srcf.net

Islamic Society: www.isoc.co.uk/freshers

Jewish Society: www.cambridgesu.co.uk

                                     36                            (Table of Contents)
Sustainability

In 2017, Emma was awarded the Gold Award from the                 Green  Impact

initiative. We hope you will continue in our efforts to make      Emma   an eco-

friendly place! Here are some tips:

REDUCE

●  Don’t want unwanted ads in your pigeon-hole?  There’s      an  envelope  with

   green stickers on the board inside the

   pidge! Put a green sticker next to your

   name!

●  Don’t forget to switch-off lights and

   unplug devices to minimise energy

   consumption.

●  Report any faults (i.e. leaky taps, faulty

   radiators, etc) through Emma’s online

   maintenance form.

REUSE

●  Grab an Emma Green Duck shopping bag from The Porters’ Lodge.

●  Buy an Emma inscribed reusable Keep Cup from the Cafeteria or

   Fiona’s and get 10% off of every hot drink you get using the cup in the

   College!

RECYCLE

Cambridge is pretty great for recycling, and can handle many materials other

places do not. See www.cambridge.gov.uk/bins-rubbish-and-recycling for

details, including collection dates.

All student accommodation should have recycling bins, notify the

Accommodation Officer otherwise at: accommodation@emmamcr.org.uk.

Computing

University Information Services (UIS)

Visit www.help.uis.cam.ac.uk/service/email for all things related to your

university email address. The university email service is called Hermes and is

provided by Microsoft Outlook.

                                       37                         (Table of Contents)
CRSid

Every Cambridge student is provided with a University email address

(e.g. abc123@cam.ac.uk). The prefix part of the address (in this case, abc123) is

your CRSid. The CRSid together with the UIS password are used to identify

you to various services throughout the University.

Raven

When trying to access any of the university services you’ll be redirected to the

Raven  login       system  to  input  your    CRSid    and     UIS   password

www.legacy.raven.cam.ac.uk/

Before arrival, you will need to collect your account details. You can collect

your CRSid and initial password for Raven by completing the online form

once   you         have        completed      student  registration               (see

www.help.uis.cam.ac.uk/new-starters/it-for-students/getting-started                for

more information). Make a note of your initial password. Once you have

collected your initial password, use it to log in to the UIS Password

Management Application (www.password.raven.cam.ac.uk/ ) and create your

own UIS Password. Your CRSid and this newly created UIS password will be

everything you need to access any of the university services.

Make sure to check your email regularly, as all official communications from

the University will be by email. In the run-up to the start of term, the MCR

Committee will begin emailing you with helpful information and details of

Freshers’ events.

Connecting your own Computer

You will likely need to use computer facilities during your time at Emma.

Most people bring a laptop, and we strongly recommend you do. There is

excellent high-speed internet connectivity in Cambridge. There is internet in

college accommodations (eduroam). This is available to all Emma students

throughout the College and covers much of the city. Wired access points are

provided in the Library and MCR. The college also provides a guide to

connecting, and committee members will host a walk-in session during

Freshers’ week for computing access. If you have any special computing

software or equipment needs, there are funds available to help. Please contact

the Computer Officer (computing@emmamcr.org.uk) to discuss your needs in

confidence.

                                          38                   (Table of Contents)
Set up and use Eduroam

To set up eduroam it is essential to first retrieve your username (your eduroam

identifier) and password (your Network access token) from UCS Tokens

(tokens.uis.cam.ac.uk). You will be first redirected to the Raven login system

to input your CRSid and UIS password. More information can be found at

help.uis.cam.ac.uk/service/wi-fi

College Wi-Fi and Computers

For coverage across Cambridge, eduroam is your best bet. Other off-site

college accommodation has specific connections, for which the password is

EmmaDucks9 if not posted within the building as something else.

The college has three computer rooms that are open 24 hours a day (access

with university card) and have a range of modern PCs. There are printing,

scanning facilities and photocopying facilities in the foyer of the library and

in the Robert Sansom student computer room. There are also two computers

and printing facilities in the MCR, reserved for the use of MCR members.

Important Websites

College website (www.emma.cam.ac.uk)

This contains a wealth of information about life at college, including welfare,

accommodation, and useful contact details. Book for Formal Hall, request

maintenance, or view today’s menu from Catering. All the official documents

are at www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/documents

MCR website (www.emmamcr.org.uk)

This contains some additional information about life at college, including

welfare, accommodation, useful contact details and the calendar of upcoming

events. Raven login needed for certain features. The website is used to sign up

for the many events we have throughout each year.

Freshers’ website (www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/)

This contains all information for Freshers’

Mailing lists

The MCR has a general mailing list emmamcr-all@srcf.net, featuring a weekly

bulletin and announcements from the Committee.

                                      39                         (Table of Contents)
Sport and other Activities

If you enjoy sports, music, or anything in between, you will find that between

the University and College teams/orchestras/societies and the MCR activities

there’s a lot on offer. It doesn’t matter whether you want to train for hours

every day or just play for fun, there’s something for everyone!

The University offers pretty much every sport going, from football to real

tennis, water polo to ice hockey. The focal point of University club’s season is

the annual varsity match against Oxford, but throughout the year teams

compete at a high level in both regional leagues and the British Universities &

Colleges Sport competitions (BUCS). Some sports may require you to attend

trials in order to gauge your ability, while others take complete beginners.

Check out www.sport.cam.ac.uk to see the list of sports on offer.

As a member of the MCR you are eligible to join the University’s Fitness

Centre, located in West Cambridge. Details about the facilities and signing up

can be found at www.sport.cam.ac.uk. In addition, there is an Emmanuel

College Fitness Suite, details below. Emma also has its own sports grounds on

Wilberforce Road and has an excellent Boathouse and novice training

program for rowing. A big selection of sports clubs, open to all levels are

available within the College.

For the musically minded, a variety of ensembles are provided by the

Cambridge University Music Society, www.cums.org.uk , including concert

and symphony orchestras and several choirs. Most of these are entry by

audition only but there is also a range of university-wide musical societies

open to all abilities. There is the College Choir for those who wish to audition

and also a non-audition chorus, orchestra, big band and folk ensemble that

put on concerts once a term. The Emmanuel College Music Society website

has more details www.emmamusic.co.uk.

For other interests — acting, comedy, juggling — there’s almost certainly a

group or society already existing for you to join. For a full list of all registered

University societie, see www.societies.cam.ac.uk.

For more information about societies, head along to the University Freshers

fair and the Emmanuel Freshers fair. For more information visit the ECSU

website (www.ecsu.org.uk) where you can see all the College societies on

offer.

                               40                                  (Table of Contents)
Frank Needham Windsor

This fund provides financial support for specific (‘sweaty’) sporting

endeavours at College or University level. Grants are made of up to 50% of

costs (up to a maximum of £250 per year). Applications are made through

Tutors, throughout the academic year, by filling in an application form (Raven

required)  https://www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/welfare/funding/graduates/

Grants are decided by the Windsor Committee.

NB: For ‘non sweaty’ sports College may provide funding on occasion. For

advice, ask your Tutor.

College Sports Facilities

The Fitness Suite

The Fitness Suite is located at 22 Parkside, adjacent to the College and Parker’s

Piece. The entrance is downstairs into the basement. This gym is for the

exclusive use of Emmanuel students. There are men’s/women’s changing

rooms, showers, bathrooms, a cardio room (2 treadmills, 2 ergs, 2 bikes), a

weight room (a variety of machines), and a callisthenics room (light weights,

stretching aids, and mats).

There are some important rules for users of the fitness suite:

1. Only inducted members of the College may use the Fitness Suite.

2. Never go to the gym alone. There is not an attendant present.

3. Wear proper gym attire (includes trainers), no muddy footwear in the gym.

4. Don’t blast music; keep headphones on.

5. Gym hours are 7am-9am and 10am–10pm.

6. Report machine breaks to the Bursar (bursar@emma.cam.ac.uk) or to the

Sports Officer (sports@emmamcr.org.uk)

7. Complete Fitness Suite Induction

https://www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/documents/ and contact the Sports

Officer (sports@emmamcr.org.uk)

Once you have completed an induction and filled out some forms, your

university card will be activated and will allow you to use the facilities. There

will be an induction conducted during Freshers’ Week. If you miss the

inductions, contact the Sports Officer to schedule a time. You can find detailed

information here:

                                     41                           (Table of Contents)
www.emma.cam.ac.uk/supporting/impact/buildings/?id=6. Safety instruction

can    be  found  in  the  Health         and     Safety   Handbook                 (at

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/documents).

The Sportsground

The College Sportsground, a 12 acre site on Wilberforce Road near Grange

Road, consists of 2 football pitches, 1 rugby pitch, 9 tennis courts (3 newly-laid

hardcourts and 6 grass courts), 1 cricket pitch and 2 netball courts. The

Sportsground also includes changing rooms. Students are welcome to use

these facilities, but they should first check with the Head Groundsman, Mark

Robinson, using groundsman@emma.cam.ac.uk or on 01223 353961. (Sports

team captains will do this for organised training sessions and matches.)

The Boathouse

The Emmanuel College Boat Club’s rowing boats and up to 8 postgraduate

students live in the boat house (also called Cutter Ferry), and that is where the

club has its gym. The gym is available exclusively to members of the Boat Club

who have been inducted. You will get the chance to sign up for the Boat Club

during the Freshers’ Fair or a little later during the year (contact the rowing

club captain or your sport officer for more information).

Swimming Pool

Emmanuel College has an outdoor swimming pool. The pool is in the Fellows’

Garden and is open from the beginning of Easter Term (mid-June) until the

end of August. Opening hours are 6.30am-9am and 12:30pm-7pm, 7 days a

week.

Squash Courts

Emma has 2 very nice, recently refurbished squash courts situated on the

College site. There is a booking system at Porters’ Lodge and online

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/facilities/roombooking and you can borrow

rackets from the Porters’ Lodge or from the MCR.

Tennis Courts

From Easter term until May week, there will be tennis courts set up in the

Paddock (grass court) with a real net and some lines. Rackets and balls can

be borrowed from the Porters’ Lodge.

                                      42                   (Table of Contents)
Other Sports Equipment

Frisbee, croquet, rounders, badminton, baseball, football, climbing …

equipment may be borrowed from Porters’ Lodge or found in the college kit

room! Parker’s Piece which is next to Emmanuel College is a great open area

to practise all sorts of team sports for free. Get in touch with the relevant

college sports club before borrowing some equipment or for more

information. Only croquet and tennis are permitted on the Paddock.

Cambridge Life

Cambridge has plenty of good pubs and nice cafes for you to explore. The

pubs do high quality, affordable food, and the cafes a selection of pastries.

Beyond that the city is full of cultural goings on, and beyond the city limits are

cycle routes, National Trust properties and a selection of picturesque villages.

Pubs and Drinks

Near Emma - The Clarendon Arms, The Grain & Hop Store, The Champion of

the Thames (pub quiz), The Regal (Wetherspoons)

Mill Road - Cambridge Blue, The Devonshire Arms, The Alex , The Earl of

Beaconsfield (regular live gigs), The Empress (Cambridge’s best pub quiz), 196

(Mill Road)

Town Centre - The Cambridge Brewhouse , The Eagle (of DNA fame), The

Bath House , The Pint Shop (beer & gin), The Anchor, The Mill, The Granta

(riverside patio), The Maypole.

Medium-Distance - The Fort St George (Midsummer Common), The Alma

(pub quiz), The Old Spring, The Boathouse, The Burleigh Arms (near

Barnwell),

Cocktails - The Green Man (Grantchester), The Green Dragon (Chesterton),

The Plough (Fen Ditton), All Bar One (Milton Keynes), Las Iguanas, Tabouche,

La Raza, Baroosh, Browns, Novi, 2648 .

Coffee

Near Emma - Fiona’s Emmanuel College,       Savino's  ,  Bould  Brothers,  Caffè

Nero, Arts Picturehouse (also movies).

                                        43                      (Table of Contents)
Town Centre - Whale Café, Indigo Coffee House, Espresso Lane Cafe , The

Grad Cafe in the University Centre, Fitzbillies (+cakes), Aromi, Charlie's

Coffee Company & Pizzeria.

Mill Road - Hot Numbers, Black Cat Cafe , Limoncello, Relevant Record

Café.

Restaurants

Near Emma –Wagamama , Pizza Express, Zizzi, The Cricketers,       Baan Thai,

Seven Days, Nandos, Tiffin Truck

Town Centre - The Rainbow Café, The Cambridge Chop House, Butch Annie’s

(best burgers), Charlie Chan, Kymmoy.

Mill Road - Bibimbap House (Korean), Curry Queen (Indian), Rockers (Steaks

and Burgers), Al Casbah (Algerian), Damas Bridge (Syrian), The Sea Tree

(Fish), Bedouin (North African)

Cheap Eats - Emma Hall, Nanna Mexico, Michaelhouse Café, Carlos BBQ

(Turkish), North China Dumplings, Indigo Coffee House, KFC, Popeyes

Cambridge and wide selection of worldwide food in Market Square.

Places to Visit and Things to Do

Cambridge University Botanic Garden - Free entry for Cambridge students.

Lovely gardens, nice all year round for a stroll or picnic.

Fitzwilliam Museum – founded in 1816, the art and antiquities museum of the

University of Cambridge. Look out for the special exhibits.

Other museums, all free: www.museums.cam.ac.uk,

www.visitcambridge.org/place-categories/museums-galleries/

Big concerts and comedy - Check out the Corn Exchange and Cambridge

Junction

Theatre and comedy - The ADC Theatre, The Corpus Playroom,        Mumford

Theatre, Cambridge Arts Theatre.

Cinema - Vue, Light, Picture House

Classical music - West Road Concert Hall, ECMS recitals (in college every

Sunday!)

Punting - A classic Cambridge pastime. You can hire punts from Scudamore’s

with a student discount or make friends from one of the colleges with punts.

                                       44                    (Table of Contents)
Nice places for a walk

Cambridge - Midsummer Common and down the river, down Mill Lane to

Coe Fen and more river, along to Grantchester Meadows.

Ely - A city the size of a village. Beautiful Cathedral, Oliver Cromwell’s

House, Peacocks Tearoom or the Almonry Tea Room for a drink or a bite to

eat. A long walk or a 15 min train.

Anglesey Abbey and Wimpole Estate - Both National Trust

Grantchester - An idyllic little village a 40 min walk from Emma.

London - All of he delights of London are just a 50min train ride away

more things to do in Cambridgeshire.

Useful Websites:

Staying on top of things. There are a number of Facebook groups and websites

you really want to visit on day one of your Cambridge experience.

● For all info on May Balls, June events and Garden Parties, visit

www.whichcambridgecollege.com/balls/

● Talks happening in Cambridge: www.talks.cam.ac.uk

● Check out what is happening at the Anglia Ruskin hang-out site the Junction

for amazing comedy, music, etc. www.junction.co.uk

● Check   out  who      is            visiting  the     Corn            Exchange

www.cambridgelive.org.uk/cornex

● Cambridge Tab www.thetab.com/uk/cambridge/ for the latest scandals and

updates on Cambridge

● Cambridge Union Society for a whole bunch of amazing speakers and other

events www.cus.org/

● Useful                information             for                     Freshers’

www.emma.cam.ac.uk/admissions/graduates/freshers/

                                      45                           (Table of Contents)
Notes:

        46  (Table of Contents)
    Photo  by Sarah Rawlinson

47         (Table of Contents)
