File: 02.Matriculation Affiliated 2024.pdf
                                              1

               The Reverend Jeremy Caddick, MA

               Praelector

                     MATRICULATION FOR AFFILIATED STUDENTS

Affiliated students are those who have a degree from another university and are reading for a

Cambridge BA, which they normally receive after two years study. From an academic point of

view affiliated students are treated as undergraduates and from a social point of view they are

treated as postgraduate students. Affiliated students wear an undergraduate gown.

Matriculation is the formal process of enrolling in the University of Cambridge and specifically in

Emmanuel College. You matriculate by signing the Matriculation Book. Before this ceremony

there will be a group photograph, and afterwards an individual photograph. There are several

online declarations that you need to make before the ceremony as well. It is followed by the

formal Matriculation Dinner to celebrate joining the College and University.

The College Matriculation Ceremony for Postgraduates and Affiliated Students will take place

during the late afternoon of Wednesday 23 October 2024. This is your top priority on that

day and it is not expected that you will be absent.

If you genuinely have a serious reason why you cannot be present then please contact the

Tutorial Office (tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk) without delay.

WHAT TO WEAR

Either:        Undergraduate gown and a plain dark suit with a white shirt, tie and black shoes

or:            Undergraduate gown and a plain dark dress or suit with skirt or trousers with a

               white blouse and black shoes

If you do not already have a gown then you will need to obtain one as soon as you arrive. The

College Students' Union (ECSU) and the Porters will be able to help with this. Gowns can also be

bought from several outfitters in the centre of town.

WHAT HAPPENS

Before the ceremony

Shortly after your arrival you will be sent two links. Please follow both of them and indicate your

agreement before the matriculation ceremony.

The first is to the University Matriculation Form, where you will agree to the following

declarations:

‘I promise to observe the Statutes and Ordinances of the University as far as they concern

me, and to pay due respect and obedience to the Chancellor and other officers of the

University.

                     St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                           www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                                 2

            I understand that in becoming a member of the above College I accept the

            responsibility of membership of the College and University community and

            agree to abide by the statutes, rules and regulations of these institutions

            and to do nothing that is harmful to the work or reputation of either of

            them.’

You will also be giving consent to the processing by the College and the University of your

personal data for proper purposes (as described in the Data Protection Statement on the College

website www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/documents/) and promising to observe the provisions

of the Data Protection legislation yourself.

The second document to read is the College Regulations and the College Health & Safety guide

and policy . You will find a copy of both of these in your Freshers’ Pack. Please do read them.

When you follow the link you will be asked to indicate that you agree to abide by them.

ON THE DAY OF THE CEREMONY

Please come to the Old Library correctly dressed and with a gown at 4.45pm promptly.

After the procedure has been explained to you, a group photograph will be taken in Front Court.

After that you are asked to come to the Matriculation Ceremony in groups through the afternoon

wearing your gown and dark clothes. There will be a list showing your individual time on the

noticeboard in the B staircase entrance and in the Old Library.

Then you will write your full name in the College Matriculation Book (in your normal handwriting

i.e. not your signature) and the place of your birth. If you were born in the British Isles, you write

the historic county of your birth (i.e. not necessarily the current local government area). By

tradition, the form of county name for such counties as Yorkshire, Cheshire, Lancashire and so

on is York (as in ‘the County of York’), Chester, Lancaster, etc. If you were born outside the British

Isles you write the area (state, province, department, land etc. and the country (e.g. Gironde,

France; Florida, USA; Shandong Province, China)

Immediately afterwards an individual photograph will be taken.

MATRICULATION DINNER

The Matriculation Dinner will be held on the evening of the same day, Wednesday 23 October.

At 7.00 pm there will be drinks in the Old Library followed at 7.30 pm by Dinner in Hall. Dress is as

for the Matriculation ceremony. Everyone wears a gown.

Please complete this form by Wednesday 25 September 2024, if you have any dietary

requirements or food allergies that you wish to be brought to the attention of the College

Catering Department or if you do NOT propose to come to the Freshers’ Dinner and/or the

Matriculation Dinner – please tick the appropriate box. There is no need to complete this form if

you do not have any dietary requirements.

Thank you.

                      St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                            www.emma.cam.ac.uk
