File: 03.College Counsellor Postgrad welcome 24-25.pdf
Welcome from Tim Ellis, College Counsellor and Mental Health Coordinator

I would like to welcome you, or welcome you back, and to wish you well during your time at

Emmanuel College. As a Postgraduate, you are likely to have considerable personal experience

to draw upon to inform and improve your life here. At the same time, this is a point of change

and challenge, particularly if you are new to the UK. There are many opportunities within the

College community, and the wider University, to help you negotiate this transition and enhance

your time here.

I hope you are settling in well. However, if at any point you want to reach out for support, here

are some of the options:

     •  Your Postgraduate Tutor

     •  Any Postgraduate or Undergraduate Tutor

     •  Your Supervisor/s

     •  MCR (The graduate student community) Welfare representatives

        https://www.emmamcr.org.uk/wp/

     •  College Nurse

     •  College Counsellor (me) counsellor@emma.cam.ac.uk or the24@cam.ac.uk

     •  University Counselling Service (UCS) www.counselling.cam.ac.uk

     •  Sexual Assault and Harassment Advisor (SAHA) www.counselling.cam.ac.uk/sexual-

        assault-and-harassment-advisor

     •  Accessibility and Disability Resource Centre (ADRC) www.disability.admin.cam.ac.uk

     •  Student Advice Service (SAS) www.cambridgesu.co.uk/support/advice/

     •  Your Doctor

As well as academic progress, extracurricular activities and developing social connections,

gaining a better understanding of yourself is likely to be another of the life-long benefits you

derive from being here. That personal development may start from a period of uncertainty or

difficulty.

I aim to provide inclusive and accessible counselling and welfare support, available to every

Postgraduate student. You are welcome to contact me if you have not used counselling before

and are unsure about what it is, or if it can help you. At its heart, it is a conversation focused on

what is important to you. Talking to an experienced professional, in confidence, can often

provide relief or a new perspective.

I see students in college, both in and out of term, with flexibility of appointment times. You can

email me to request an appointment or use the Counselling Request Form

https://www.emma.cam.ac.uk/life/welfare/health/counselling/ I also have a more general

welfare role in college, and you can contact me if you want information about other sources of

support or if you have another welfare query.

I hope you have fulfilling and enriching year ahead.

Tim
