File: 03.Domestic Matters for PGs 2024-25.pdf
                    1

                       DOMESTIC MATTERS

                                           2024–2025

                                           (Postgraduates)

St Andrew’s Street     www.emma.cam.ac.uk

Cambridge CB2 3AP      @emmanuelcambridge
                           2

INDEX

Access to rooms by staff…………………………………………………………………………………………………..7

ANUK……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..8

Association fee........................................................................................................................ 12

Barbecues............................................................................................................................... 11

Bicycles .................................................................................................................................. 12

Broken glass............................................................................................................................ 11

Buttery Shop………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 19

Catering arrangements 2024-2025………………………………………………………………………………….. 16

CCTV……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….…..13

Charging for meals…………………………………………………………………………………………………….…..18

College accommodation…………………………………………………………………………………………….…….4

College regulations regarding accommodation……………………………………………………………….…...4

Complaints ............................................................................................................................. 15

Counselling………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….16

Damage to college property ..................................................................................................... 13

Data protection – electoral registration..................................................................................... 15

Dates of terms........................................................................................................................... 4

Diets & allergies……………………………………………………………………………………………………………..17

Formal Hall……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………16

Guestrooms .............................................................................................................................9

Housekeeping…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………8

Information updates…………………………………………………………………………………………………………4

Laundry and ironing...................................................................................................................8

Luggage storage ........................................................................................................................9

Mail………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………11

Payment of termly bills ............................................................................................................ 12

Prescription charge reimbursement ......................................................................................... 15

Repairs/faults.......................................................................................................................... 11

Respecting others.................................................................................................................... 15

Room bookings……………………………………………………………………………………………………………..18

Rooms and keys…………………………………………………………………………………………………………..….5

Safety precautions..................................................................................................................... 9

Security &insurance................................................................................................................13

Sharps box .............................................................................................................................. 11

Smoking……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….13

Staff information……………………………………………………………………………………………………………..3

Swimming & sport.................................................................................................................... 14

Universitycard ..........................................................................................................................5

Vacating rooms……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….7

Visitors…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..8

       St Andrew’s Street     www.emma.cam.ac.uk

       Cambridge CB2 3AP      @emmanuelcambridge
                                                   3

STAFF INFORMATION

You can get in touch with the staff below if you have any questions about domestic matters:

NAME                   ROLE                        OFFICE            CONTACT

Catherine Webb         Overall responsibility for  B staircase       34255

Bursar                 Domestic Matters            Front Court       csw28@emma.cam.ac.uk

ACCOMMODATION AND ROOMS

Donna Bass             Manages the bedmakers,      Basement          34216

Housekeeper            Laundry and furnishings     Hostel            housekeeper@emma.cam.ac.uk

Anna Krupinska         Responsible for PG          B Staircase,      34244

Tutorial & Admissions  accommodation and           Ground Floor      tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk

Administrator          administration

Harriet Carey          Coordinates public room     A staircase       748987

Conference Manager     bookings                    Front Court       conference@emma.cam.ac.uk

Jason Machado          Coordinates setup of                          07759 130588

Function Rooms         rooms, AV etc.                                eventsupport@emma.cam.ac.uk

Carey Pleasance        Manages guest room          B staircase       34255

Guest Rooms            bookings                    Front Court       guestrooms@emma.cam.ac.uk

CATERING

Nathan Aldous          Responsible for catering,   Opposite kitchen  34277

Head Chef              menus and dietaries         New Court         na385@emma.cam.ac.uk

Jane Carter            Administration for          Opposite kitchen  34235

Catering Administrator dinners/functions etc.      New Court         jms48@emma.cam.ac.uk

Matt Carter            Runs the Catering           N1                tel. 34262

Head of Catering       Department                  New Court         mc256@emma.cam.ac.uk

MAINTENANCE AND BUILDINGS

David Hobbs            Responsible for College     A staircase       34223

Buildings Manager      buildings and their         Front Court       dh437@emma.cam.ac.uk

                       upkeep

Darran Kerry           Runs the Maintenance        Workshop          07720 160112

Maintenance Manager    Department                  North Court       dk420@emma.cam.ac.uk

SAFETY AND SECURITY

Stephen Montgomery     Responsible for the         Porters’ Lodge    34274

Head Porter            Lodge, security and safety                    porters@emma.cam.ac.uk

Michael Proudfoot      Manages College Health,     A staircase       768734

Health, Safety & Fire  Safety and Fire             Front Court       mp2154@emma.cam.ac.uk

Officer

FINANCIAL

Bianca Ovidenie        Responsible for students’   A staircase       34207

Senior Accounts        College bills               Front Court       student-billing@emma.cam.ac.uk

Assistant

GARDENS

Brendon Sims           Runs the Gardening          ‘Sheds’           330905

Head Gardener          Department                  Emmanuel          bs678@emma.cam.ac.uk

                                                   House

SPORTSGROUNDS

Mark Robinson          Runs the Sportsground       Wilberforce Road  07922 590912

Groundsman                                                           mr414@emma.cam.ac.uk

                       St Andrew’s Street             www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                       Cambridge CB2 3AP              @emmanuelcambridge
                                            4

INFORMATION UPDATES

From time to time information regarding the College and its services will be updated. Please look out fro emails

from the Busar and Senior Tutor communicating any updates.

1. COLLEGE ACCOMMODATION

The basis on which accommodation is provided by the College is different from that provided in many

universities or in the private rental sector. It should be noted that one advantage of this ‘College model

of accommodation’ is that postgraduates only pay rent for the 12 weeks out of 13 weeks of term

arrangement. The accommodation at Emmanuel is not offered on a self-catering basis, instead College

rooms are provided as part of a package which includes access to Hall and the cafeteria. In houses or on

staircases on the College site the gyp rooms provide only very limited facilities – often only microwave and

are intended for the preparation of light snacks only. The facilities are limited by the space available, and

consideration of fire safety etc. Electrical equipment, other than listed at 9(a) below may not be used in

kitchens.

Other facilities are also provided centrally – for example, a central staffed laundry is provided, and no

washing machines are located in individual postgraduate rooms on the College site. Washing

machines and tumble dryers are available in all properties that are not on the main College.

The College regrets that there is no accommodation suitable for infants and children. For those

Postgraduates with children aged 15 and under, the Childcare Office can provide support and information

on         local  childcare  provision,        schools                  and  childcare        bursaries

https://www.childcare.admin.cam.ac.uk/.

2. COLLEGE REGULATIONS REGARDING ACCOMMODATION

College rooms are occupied in accordance with the College Regulations (a copy of which can be

found on the College website https://www.emma.cam.ac.uk/about/documents/). The following

College Regulations set out the formal conditions covering the occupation of rooms:

    11. Sub-letting College accommodation is strictly prohibited. Failure to comply with this rule will

invoke disciplinary proceedings against the individual.

    22. (…) Every student’s College bill for any term shall be paid by the third Wednesday of the next Full

Term with the exception of the Lent Term bill which must be paid by 27th April. The College reserves the

right to levy charges against students whose bills remain unpaid by that date. No student whose education

fees and/or College bill remains overdue shall be allowed to return, or to remain in residence after a

vacation.

3. DATES OF TERMS ETC.

The dates of University & Full Term, and Normal Period of Residence, for the academic year 2024/2025 are

as follows:

                             MICHAELMAS                     LENT             EASTER

University Term starts       1 October                      5 January        17 April

NPR starts*                  2 October                      15 January       19 April

Full Term starts             8 October                      21 January       29 April

Full Term ends               6 December                     21 March         20 June

NPR ends*                    10 December                    26 March         28 June

University Term ends         19 December                    25 March         25 June

*applies only to year 4 and 5 veterinary students keeping undergraduate terms (detailed information

below)

                        St Andrew’s Street     www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                        Cambridge CB2 3AP      @emmanuelcambridge
                                                    5

4. UNIVERSITY CARD

Students are issued with a university card when they arrive at College. Cards identify students and provide

access (e.g., to the College Library, faculty libraries and through various College gates) and allow the use

of services (e.g., charging for meals in the College cafeteria).

If your card is lost, stolen or damaged, you should should report this to the Tutorial Office using the

following email address as soon as possible univcard@emma.cam.ac.uk. The University levies a £10 fee

for replacing lost and stolen cards, and charges incurred in this respect are recovered via a student’s

College account. This fee can be avoided if a crime report number is available. Damaged cards are usually

replaced free of charge, as long as the damaged card is returned to the College card representative.

University cards must be returned to the College when you graduate there are arrangements in place for

the cards to be collected immediately prior to graduation day.

5. ROOMS AND KEYS

Allocation of rooms to freshers

Questions concerning the allocation of rooms to postgraduate freshers should be directed to the

Postgraduate Admissions Administrator in the first instance (tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk). Rooms

are allocated to postgraduates by the Postgraduate Tutor. The Bursar is responsible for the decoration,

furnishing and maintenance of rooms. With the Buildings & Services Committee (which includes student

representatives) she is also responsible for setting room rents.

Residence register & lost keys

On every occasion when coming into residence the Residence Register at the Porters’ Lodge must be

signed. Students will then be issued with their room key or have their University card enabled for salto

access if applicable. Students are not permitted to get keys cut at their own expense as all keys must be

procured through the Porters’ Lodge for security reasons.

On every occasion when going out of residence, the Residence Register must be signed, and the room key

returned. Failure to return a room key and to sign the Residence Register on the date of Final Exeat will

make the postgraduate liable to a fine at the discretion of the Senior Tutor, the fine being added to the

postgraduate’s College bill.

Should the room key be lost, a charge, to be agreed annually by the Senior Tutor and Bursar, will be made

and added to the student’s College bill.

If a student mistakenly locks a key inside a room, a temporary key will be issued without charge, provided

it is returned to the Porters’ Lodge the same day.

University cards & gate access

Students will need to present their university card at the Porters’ Lodge so that it can be set to operate

the locks to the various external gates around the main College site.

Clinical medics and vets room ballots

Clinical Medics and Vets are eligible for accommodation for the duration of their 3-year clinical phase.

Rooms for current year 3, 4 and 5 medics are chosen in a room ballot which is held in April. Details of

the room ballot will be circulated in March. Room for vets and other eligible students are chosen in

the General Room Ballot (in April/May).

4th and 5th year Clinical Veterinary students - rent will be charged in the same way as for undergraduates

under the conditions below. There will be three bills covering the three Normal Periods of Residence

(NPR), each allowing you to occupy the room for 10 weeks. You must inform the Tutorial Office of your

departure and arrival dates and if you wish to stay in your room outside NPR. You can leave your

belongings in the room, but you must return the key to the Porters’ Lodge and ask them to email tutorial-

office@emma.cam.ac.uk with confirmation. Periods outside NPR are charged according to the number

of nights you stay.

                     St Andrew’s Street                www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                     Cambridge CB2 3AP                 @emmanuelcambridge
                                                     6

Clinical Medicine Students – your College room is booked until 31 July for the current academic year.

Students can leave their belongings in the room during 4 weeks of summer holiday between year 4 and

year 5 and the 2 weeks of summer holiday between year 5 and year 6. Providing the following

commitments are met you will be not charged for the room:

- inform Tutorial Office about summer holiday - Google form will be sent in due course,

- return your key to Porters' Lodge upon departure,

- request Porters to email Tutorial with confirmation that the key has been returned.

2nd 3rd and 4th year PhD students + Clinical Vets room ballots

Rooms for all 2nd, 3rd & 4th year PhD students and Clinical Vets including those from overseas, UK and

Ireland are chosen in a room ballot which is held in the Lent Term. Details of the room ballot will be

circulated in February/March.

Rooms for year 5 PhD students

If you would like to continue your College accommodation, we will add you to the waiting list and let

you know if there are any rooms available once Freshers’ are allocated (late July/August).

Rooms are fully furnished

In general, students in College occupy bed-sitting rooms which are adequately furnished. Each staircase

has bathrooms or showers, WCs and kitchens. Students are not permitted to substitute items of their own

furniture for those supplied by the College, nor are they permitted to add items of their own or remove

College items.

Bed linen

The College will provide a mattress protector, single duvet and one pillow in all rooms as standard.

Please note that sheets, pillowcases, and duvet covers are not provided by the College. If these items

are required, students will need to request a bedding package prior to their arrival, or once they have

moved into their room. This will include a single sheet,duvet cover and one pillowcase. The bedding

package is priced at £15 and will be charged to your College bill. Request a bedding package via the

College website: /apps/helpdesk. Fill in the details required and then choose ‘Household’ as job type

and click ‘Add Job’. A sheet and a pillowcase can be included in your weekly bag of laundry (see para 5a

below).

Crockery and cutlery

Crockery and cutlery are not provided, and these items must not be taken from Hall or the cafeteria.

Pictures and posters

Pictures/posters may be hung on the walls provided that appropriate hooks rather than adhesives

are used (College Regulation No 12 refers). Suitable hooks are available free fromthe Porters’ Lodge

and the ECSU Shop (located by the Post Room) The shop is open during mealtimes and is staffed by

ECSU Committee. It sells sweets, stationery, toiletries & a variety of other bits & pieces you might need

— all of which can be paid for on your College Bill. It also sells personal attack alarms for the low price of

£1.) Nails, Blue Tac, White Tac, drawing pins, Sellotape and other adhesives must not be used on walls

in College rooms.

Inventory

College accommodation is fully furnished. An inventory for a typical room is as follows although precise

provision depends on room size etc. If students experience any problems with these furnishings or have

any special requirements, they should discuss the matter with the Housekeeper, who, in consultation with

the Bursar, may agree to the replacement of the items concerned.

•        1 x bed and mattress                              •    1 x duvet

•        1 x wardrobe                                      •    2x chairs

                           St Andrew’s Street           www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                           Cambridge CB2 3AP            @emmanuelcambridge
                                                     7

•       1 x mattress protector                          •  1 x desk lamp

•       1 x bookcase                                    •  1 x mini fridge

•       1 x pillow                                      •  1 x chest of drawers

•       1 x desk                                        •  1 x coffee table

Condition of rooms

Please remember that rooms are exchanged annually, and that you must leave the room at the end of your

course/the agreed date in the condition in which you found it. The College will charge for all non-

accidental damage to rooms or furnishings, including damage caused by the use of adhesives on walls

(see also above). If rents are to be kept at a reasonable level, it is important to avoid unnecessary

redecoration of rooms.

Vacating rooms at the end of accommodation period

At the end of the rental period, the room must be fully vacated, and all property must be removed. Failure

to empty belongings will result in the student being charged for the additional days that the belongings

remain in the room. Items of property may only be left or stored in the room with the prior written

permission of the Postgraduate Tutor or the Bursar. You must complete online Exeat at least 2 weeks

before the departure

Access to rooms by staff

The following guidelines are intended to ensure that the privacy of students in College

accommodation is respected and, at the same time, that maintenance and other work can be

completed efficiently by the College.

When planned maintenance work is to take place on a staircase or within a house, residents will receive

an email notice 24 hours in advance of the work being carried out and the expected time frame of the

works.

When unplanned works need to be completed quickly, notice will not be possible, but staff will knock

before entering student rooms and take reasonable steps to reschedule their visit should it be

inconvenient at that time.

If you enter a fault or breakage in the maintenance reporting system on the College website, it is taken to

indicate your consent for a member of College staff to enter your room to complete the required repair,

and in those circumstances, notice of the visit to your room may not be given.

Visits to student rooms, staircases, or houses for reasons other than maintenance, for example to

inspect decorations or to plan future works, will be kept to a minimum, and all reasonable steps to

protect the privacy of residents will be observed. Residents will receive an email notice of the

expected time of any such visit at least 24 hours in advance. Repeated visits to a room within the

same Term will be avoided.

Except in cases where security or safety is at risk, a warning will be issued concerning any student’s

possessions which are not permitted in College accommodation. Only if those warnings are not acted

upon will possessions be removed by the College. The Head Porter will act as a point of contact to supply

information should possessions be removed in these circumstances.

The College will warn occupants via email notice suitably in advance of any planned changes to

facilities or equipment on staircases or in houses.

Accommodation on the night of the May Ball or June Event

Rooms ontheCollegesitemustbevacatedbyacertaintimeonthenightoftheMayBallorJuneEvent.

The College cannot provide accommodation elsewhere.

                            St Andrew’s Street          www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                            Cambridge CB2 3AP           @emmanuelcambridge
                                                     8

Recycling

The College encourages recycling. This requires residents rubbish to be separated. For rooms on the

main site a recycling bin for paper, cardboard, glass, tins, and plastic bottles is provided in each

student room and will be cleared twice a week by the bedmaker. A recycling bin is also provided in

each gyp room and will be emptied on a daily basis.

In outside properties use is made of the kerbside collection bins provided and emptied by the City

Council. Up to date details of recycling arrangements are provided on the College websites and are

displayed within the entrance hall of each outside property. Please do not put recyclable materials in

the general rubbish bins.

Housekeeping

Housekeeping will visit each staircase/property to clean the gyp rooms, toilets, bathrooms,

communal areas. All postgraduate students are responsible for cleaning their own rooms. Cleaning

equipment (vacuums etc.) are made available for this purpose. The bins provided in student rooms

will be emptied twice a week, and bins provided in gyp rooms will be emptied on a daily basis.

The precise schedule of visits by bedmakers to staircases and houses will vary, but a notice on each

staircase/house will record the arrangement applying there. In addition, the bedmaker on each

staircase will discuss the arrangements with residents.

Bins should not be left in corridors or on landings, as this presents a fire and trip hazard. A ‘do not disturb’

sign should be hung on the door handle if you do not want the bedmaker to enter.

Visitors

After 22.00, all guests of students living on the main College site and offsite must be accompanied by their

host, and all such guests must leave College premises by 02.00, unless only staying for one night or

registered  for  an        overnight  stay.    Overnight    guests  can           be       registered             at:

/life/facilities/accommodation/visitor. College Regulations 20–23 include further information.

Residence out of normal periods

Postgraduate Students: depending on the course for which they are studying, some postgraduates

occupy their College rooms on the same basis as undergraduate students, and the rent paid by them

only coverstheNPR. Otherpostgraduatespayahighertermlyrentandareentitledtooccupytheirrooms

for 13 weeks each term.

Undergraduate Students (including clinical vets year 4 and 5): Rents paid by undergraduates cover

only the Normal Period of Residence, not the University Terms. Undergraduates wishing to stay in

College outside the Normal Period of Residence must obtain the permission of the Senior Tutor

and/or the Bursar and pay a rent of £18.20 per day. Such permission will normally be given to

overseas students, but only to a limited number of home students, who must have an exceptional

reason for staying in Cambridge.

Guest rooms booked for a period beyond the Normal Period of Residence in the EasterTerm mustbe

paid for in advance, before accommodation can be reserved.

6. ANUK

Together with all other Colleges in Cambridge, Emmanuel College     observes          the  ANUK  code             of

practice in the provision of student accommodation and services.

7. LAUNDRY AND IRONING

A laundry is situated in East Court which is at the north-east end of the Paddock. The service provides

for the washing (but not ironing) of one 4.5 kg bag/week of laundry. This bag can include a sheet and

a pillowcase. The cost of this service is included in the room rent on your termly College bill. Students

need to purchase a reusable laundry bag from the Laundry (at a cost of £15) and have their name

clearly visible on the outside. Please sign in on the sheet provided when leaving your laundry bag.

                           St Andrew’s Street           www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                           Cambridge CB2 3AP            @emmanuelcambridge
                                                9

Laundry services will not be provided to students outside of NPR and bank holidays, regardless of

permission to stay in residence over the Vacation period. Laundry services are not provided to

students living in private accommodation.

There is a small launderette in the North Court Cloisters, which can be used by students to launder

items which are unsuitable for the College laundry. Keys to are available in the Porters' Lodge and

must be signed for and returned after each use of the machines. There is no charge for this facility

and all students can use it whether they are in College or private accommodation.

There are ironing rooms in North Court and the Hostel. All outside postgraduate properties are equipped

with an iron, an ironing board and a designated ironing area. You must iron in this area and report any

equipment faults immediately to the Maintenance Helpdesk | Apps | Emmanuel College, Cambridge

8. LUGGAGE STORAGE

Currently there are no storage spaces available for postgrads. If you need to store your belongings you will

need to arrange that with a commercial storage company at your own cost. A number of student luggage

storage companies operate in Cambridge on a collect-and-store basis and their details can be found

online.

9. GUEST ROOMS

Guest rooms can be booked via an online booking form at: /conferences/accommodation/ guestrooms.

Alternatively, students can call 34255, or come into the Bursary between 9am and 12noon only to book a

room. Student rates are £29.05 for a basic single and £58.30 for a basic twin. The College does not accept

guest room bookings for guests who are under the age of eighteen, even if they are accompanied.

Bookings without 24-hour notice will not be accepted. If an online request form is submitted after 12noon,

it will be dealt with the following morning. Likewise, if a telephone message is left in the afternoon, it will

be dealt with the following morning. All submission forms and telephone calls will be dealt with between

9am and 12noon daily.

The maximum number of rooms that can be booked by a student is two – two singles or a twin and a single

– for up to 7 nights. Students, College clubs and societies, needing to book more than two rooms, should

contact the Bursar. No room can be booked provisionally, and no specific room can be requested. Guests

may only stay in guest rooms as long as the student is resident in College accommodation. The address

of the room being booked will not be made available in advance to those booking. The Porter’s Lodge can

be used as a point of reference, if necessary.

Students may charge the cost of a guest room to their College bill (their CRSid will be required). However,

if a student books a guest room during their final term, payment in advance will be required (cash, credit

card or cheque only). If a student wishes to book a guest room for those attending graduation, payment

must be made on booking.

If there is a cancellation within 7 days of the booking, there will be no refund. If the cancellation is more

than 7 days in advance, the room charge will be refunded, minus a £20 admin fee/room.

10. SAFETY PRECAUTIONS

Electrical

No alterations may be made in the electrical fittings of College rooms, except by members of the maintenance

staff, or by those who have been authorised by the College.

Additional heating or cooling devices may not be introduced into College rooms.

All privately owned electrical equipment used in College accommodation is the responsibility of the owner. All

such equipment must conform to either British Standards (BS) or European (EU) regulations. No electrical

appliances, apparatus, leads, adaptors, transformers or plugs, other than BS or EU stamped, are permitted.

                          St Andrew’s Street                 www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                          Cambridge CB2 3AP                  @emmanuelcambridge
                                                 10

Particular care must be taken to avoid overloading the electrical supply system. The use of 3-way adapters is

not allowed. Multi-gang fused sockets only may be used. These may be obtained from the Maintenance

Department and charged to your College bill.

While residents in the College and College hostels are responsible for the safety of their equipment, they, and

College staff, have a duty to report any unsafe wiring or equipment which they may notice immediately.

Energy saving

Any waste of electricity or heating increases the cost of operating College accommodation, and in

turn increases room rents. It also damages the environment. Do not bring to College unnecessary

electrical equipment, for example, all College rooms already have adequate lighting. Turn off all

electrical equipment when you leave your room. Do not leave equipment on standby.

Electrical equipment for cooking

Microwaves have been installed in some gyp rooms in College and in outside properties. Instructions

for the use of these microwaves are displayed in these kitchens. Microwaves must not be removed

from the gyp room where they have been placed. The following electrical household appliances may

be brought to College for use only in gyp rooms: toasters, kettles, coffee makers, sandwich toasters,

rice cookers, slow cookers, blenders, juicers, grilling machines, bread makers and air fryers.

Equipment such as deep fat fryers, hot plates and tabletop cookers is not permitted in College

accommodation. If any other appliances are found in College rooms, they will be confiscated.

Old Court

The City Fire Office has instructed that except for kettles, no other electrical cooking equipment may

be used in Old Court sets.

Computers, mobile phone chargers, etc.

Electrical equipment such as computers, mobile telephone chargers etc. must be turned off and

unplugged when the room is unoccupied. Laptop computers used in the library must be unplugged

when not in use.

3D printers

3D printers are not permitted in College rooms.

Lighting

Other than the light provided by the College, only one additional light, using a low energy maximum

28-watt bulb, may be used in student rooms.

General safety precautions

Candles, barbecues, inflammable solvents, fairy lights, paper lampshades, plug-in air fresheners and lava

lamps are not allowed on any College property, because of the danger of fire. Any student found burning

a candle in their room will be liable to a fine at the discretion of the Senior Tutor.

Automatic door closers must not be disconnected, and fire doors throughout College, including those

in the library, must not be propped open. Any interference with fire doors reduces the effectiveness of

the fire precautions and jeopardises the safety of all residents.

It is forbidden to interfere with sealed radiator valves.

Smoking is not permitted in any College room (see below for more general restrictions on smoking

within the College site).

It is forbidden for residents to access the roofs of any College buildings. Any student who goes onto

                            St Andrew’s Street             www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                            Cambridge CB2 3AP              @emmanuelcambridge
                                                    11

the roof areas will be liable to a fine, or be asked to vacate College accommodation, at the discretion of

the Postgraduate Tutor.

Repairs/Faults

The College website has a system for logging jobs for the attention of the maintenance staff, household

department, IS department and the Porters. This can be found here (/apps/maintenance). Reports are

reviewed daily, and all items are investigated, and appropriate action taken. Please note that it is essential

that jobs are logged properly, reporting an issue to the Porters is not a substitute for this, as the Porters

cannot be expected to relay messages to the other teams responsible. Any matter which has safety

implications (i.e., the replacement of light bulbs in public areas) should be indicated in the reporting

system and remedial action will be taken as soon as possible. Each member of the College must take

responsibility for reporting a fault or breakage which has safety implications. It should not be assumed

that it has already been reported by someone else.

Fridges

All students in Collegeaccommodation have access to a fridge, located near or in theirroom. Fridges

must not be moved.

Television sets

Theuseofprivatetelevisionsetsinroomsisallowed,providedthattheoccupantholds theappropriate

licence. It is your responsibility to obtain a TV licence to watch broadcast or BBC streaming programmes.

Your home licence will not cover you unless you only use a device that’s powered solely by its own internal

batteries and not connected to the mains, and there is no College-wide cover. Full details are available

at: https://www.tvlicensing.co.uk/check-if-you-need-one/for-your-home/students-aud1

TV licensing authorities make checks on a regular basis, and you are personally liable for any fines

imposed.

11. SHARPS BOX

Sharps boxes for the safe disposal of syringes etc. are available in the Housekeeper's Office in the Hostel

basement, and in the Porters’ Lodge. Syringes etc. must not be disposed of in wastepaper bins.

Consideration for safety of bedmakers and other members of staff must be shown in the disposal of such

material. A student who requires a personal sharps box in their room should contact the Housekeeper.

12. SAFE DISPOSAL OF BROKEN GLASS

To avoid injuries to others, all broken glass, and other items which might cause injury if handled, must be

disposed of in the special bins provided in kitchens and must not be left in wastepaper bins, sinks,

kitchens etc.

13. BARBECUES

Barbecuesarenot permitted tobeused onthemainCollegesite,orat anyCollegeproperties,including in

the gardens of outside properties.

14. MAIL

Mail for student residents in College is placed in pigeonholes in the post room by the Porters. Postgraduate

students who live out of College, and work for the most part in a university department should contact the

Head Porter to have their mail forwarded to their department.

During intermission or LTWA (Leave To Work Away), mail is forwarded to students’ an alternative address

if the Porters’ Lodge has been informed of one). The student must advise how long this is to continue. If

there is a high-cost implication in forwarding mail, the student will be contacted by the Porters’ Lodge to

agree how to proceed. Once students have left the College, mail will continue to be forwarded to them for

up to 6 months.

                         St Andrew’s Street         www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                         Cambridge CB2 3AP          @emmanuelcambridge
                                                   12

15. BICYCLES

Cycle racks are provided in: Chapman’s Garden, East Court, North Court, the Basement of Janus

House and some outside properties. All bicycles must be registered with the Head Porter and must

bear the allotted College number.

There has been an increase in bike thefts and students are advised not to leave their bicycles outside the

front entrance to the College. These racks are for the use of visitors who have business in the College and,

given the risks of theft, are not suitable for bikes to be left for longer periods. Bicycles improperly parked

are liable to be removed by the Porters.

Bicycles may not be brought inside the College, except to wheel them from the gate to the nearest cycle

shed or rack. They may not be wheeled through Front Court other than on the direct route from the front

gate to the Chapman’s Garden cycle sheds. They may not be stored or kept elsewhere in the College, nor

may they be leaned against the walls of College buildings. (College Regulation 50 refers). Bicycles must

not be stored in any College rooms or the common parts of College properties. Obstructions will be

removed from College property if left in common areas.

16. PAYMENT OF TERMLY BILLS

Freshers are asked to refer to the note from the Bursar on ‘Payment of Termly Bills and  Payment          of  Fees’

which has been previously circulated.

Bills for the Michaelmas, Lent and Easter* Terms must be paid by the following dates:

Long Vacation 2024 by 16 October 2024

Michaelmas Term 2024 by 15 January 2025

Lent and ‘Estimated’* Easter Term 2025 by 27 April 2025

Easter Term 2025 by 20 August 2025

Long Vacation 2025 by 15 October 2025

Bills will be sent by email early in each term and should be paid to the College bank account shown on the

invoice. Reminders are not sent, and any bill not paid by the appropriate settlement date will be subject

to a fine.

The payment due date should be after you have received your student finance payment. If your

student finance payment has been delayed, we may be able to offer a later payment date. Please

contact student-billing@emma.cam.ac.uk as soon as possible or you can also call at 01223334207

on Tuesdays and Wednesdays between 09.00 - 11.00 & 14.00 – 15.30.

If you have difficulty paying your bill for any other reason, please contact your Tutor. The College can

offer support to students in financial difficulties, and your Tutor will be able to talk you through the

options available to you on a confidential basis.

For postgraduates in the last year of their course, special dates and procedures will apply. Details

available from the income section of the Bursary. Payment should be made via bank transfer using the

bank account details shown on the invoice.

NB: *'Estimated' Easter Term bills are included on the Lent Term bills of all postgraduates. Any services

not included on the estimated bills, e.g., special dinners, functions, guest room bookings and additional

days of residence etc., must be paid for in advance. A final bill will be issued in July, and any overestimate

will be refunded at that time.

17. ASSOCIATION FEE

Having matriculated you are a member of the College for life. When you graduate your final College

bill will include the association fee, set at the symbolic sum of £15.84. This is a one-off charge, and

covers the lifetime cost of the College Magazine, which you will receive each year, and other

publications and communications that ensure that you and the College remain in touch.

              St Andrew’s Street                        www.emma.cam.ac.uk

              Cambridge CB2 3AP                         @emmanuelcambridge
                                                   13

18. QUERIES RELATING TO BILLS

The income section of the Bursary will deal with all queries relating to College bills including quries relating

to meal charges on the ‘electronic point of sale’ system in the Catering Department. The normal hours

during which this section is open for general queries are between 11.00 -12.30 and 14.00-16.00 on

weekdays.

19. DAMAGE TO COLLEGE PROPERTY

The College will charge for all non-accidental damage to rooms, fittings, and furnishings, such as

spillageswhichstaincarpets,ordamageresultingfromhotpansorirons. TheCollegealsoreservesthe

right to charge for accidental damage to College rooms.

20. SECURITY & INSURANCE

Personal belongings

The College accepts no responsibility for the personal possessions of students, and you are advised to

ensure that doors are locked, and windows closed whenever your room is unoccupied - even for very short

periods. All windows have catches, but if you have a ground or first floor room you can contact the Head

of Maintenance to request that a window lock be fitted. You can make this request before coming into

residence if you wish. If there is a fault with a ground floor window or window lock, please report this via

the maintenance reporting system on the College website as soon as possible Helpdesk | Apps |

Emmanuel College, Cambridge

The College cannot take responsibility for monies that are stolen from rooms. It is advised that you set-up

a bank account immediately upon arriving if not before. If you intend to keep large amounts of money in

your room, then you must invest in a lockable safe box and not rely on drawers or secret places.

Accommodation in multiple occupancy houses and staircases offers tempting opportunities for thieves:

there is much coming and going and it is all too easy for a stranger to disappear into the background. For

this reason, it is important that strangers encountered on staircases should be challenged politely and

asked who they are visiting, and the room number they are looking for: this is usually enough to deter

someone who does not know the answer. If answers are unsatisfactory, such incidents should be reported

to the Porter on duty without delay. Similar precautions should also be taken in the Boathouse and at the

Sportsground.

Insurance

A basic level of contents insurance applies automatically to anyone living in College rooms. The cost of

this insurance is included within the room rents. The full details of the cover is available from the

College website. It is not possible to opt out of it but you can top up and extend the basic cover.

CCTV

There are close circuit television cameras installed at various locations around the College. These are

connected to a recording system. The Bursar is in overall charge of the CCTV system, and the Head Porter

manages it on her behalf. The object of the system is to create a safer working and living environment, and

to protect property. In the event of an incident, the CCTV recording would be used in an attempt to identify

those responsible. The system will not be used to infringe an individual’s right to privacy. Any enquiry

relating to the CCTV system and its operation should be directed, in the first instance, to the Bursar. The

College CCTV policy can be found on the College website.

SMOKING

The College is a smoke-free site, and smoking  is  not  permitted  in  any  part  of  the  College  buildings     or

grounds including but not limited to:

•     Any residential accommodation

•     All gardens

•     Boathouse

                     St Andrew’s Street            www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                     Cambridge CB2 3AP             @emmanuelcambridge
                                                   14

•      All kitchens, bathrooms, changing rooms, toilets, TV rooms       and communal           areas.

•      College vehicles

•      The College Bar

•      Sportsground including the pavilion

•      Swimming pool

21. QUEEN’S BUILDING

Eating and drinking are not permitted in the auditorium of the Queen’s  Building.

22. SWIMMING & SPORT

Swimming pool

The College has an open-air swimming pool. During the Easter Term, students may use the pool from

06.30-09.00 and 12.30-19.00 daily, including Sundays. After the end of Term, the pool is open from 06.30-

09.00 and 17.15-19.00 daily, including Sundays, until 31 August. Access is restricted whilst the pool is

cleaned between 09.00-12.30. Use of the swimming pool outside of these times is not permitted.

Any misuse of a swimming pool can be extremely dangerous, so the rules for the use of the pool must be

observed at all times. The unaccompanied use of the swimming pool at any time is not permitted. The

rules for the safe use of the pool, which are displayed beside it and listed below must be observed. The

pool is unsupervised, and students use it at their own risk.

SWIM   MING POOL RULES:

•      For use by Fellows, College staff, students and permitted guests only.

•      No entry after 19.00

•      No lone swimming

•      No diving

•      No running

•      No smoking or alcohol

•      No consumption of food or drink permitted.

•      No photography permitted.

•      Children are the responsibility of parents/guardians or other responsib  le  p  ers  o  ns  .

•      Students are permitted to bring a maximum of two guests.

Paddock tennis courts

A limited number of tennis courts are available on the paddock for use during Easter Term and the rules

for their use are displayed in the Porters’ Lodge. The tennis courts may be withdrawn from use if the grass

becomes worn. Better quality grass (and hard) courts are available at the sports ground at Wilberforce

Road.

Sportsground

The College sportsground on Wilberforce Road is only a short cycle away. It has facilities for cricket,

football, hockey, netball rugby and tennis. If you have questions about the Sportsground, please

contact the Groundsman.

The hard tennis courts are open all year round with no booking required. The grass courts are typically

up from 1st May onwards (weather depending) until the start of July. Bookings for the grass courts can

be made via the online booking system.

Community gardens

The College Community Gardens are a series of new planting beds located in the rear gardens of Park

                         St Andrew’s Street        www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                         Cambridge CB2 3AP         @emmanuelcambridge
                                                   15

Terrace. The spaces are there to be used by any students, staff or Fellows who would like to take

responsibility for one of the beds (or shared between friends). The beds can have anything you would like

to grow in them (fruit, vegetables or cut flowers). The Garden Department are available for support but

these spaces are designed to bring the College community together and aid to general wellbeing. For

further details please contact the Head Gardener.

23. RESPECTING OTHERS

We are committed to providing a welcoming, supportive and collaborative environment where

individuals are treated with respect and dignity. Staff, Fellows and students must behave

appropriately at all times, and any behaviour which causes offence, whether intentional or not, will

be treated very seriously. We are all responsible for ensuring that staff, Fellows and students are able

to contribute fully to the life and work of the College, free from harassment. It is the unwanted nature

of the behaviour which distinguishes harassment from friendly behaviour, which is welcome and

mutual.

The      University’s        Equality  and         Diversity  agenda           is  set          out         at:

http://www.admin.cam.ac.uk/offices/hr/equality The following documents listed below provide

furtheradviceonbehaviourwhichisunacceptable,andcanbefoundat: Documents&Policies|About

Us | Emmanuel College, Cambridge

     •  Student Complaints Procedure

     •  Student Respect and Dignity Policy

     •  Meetings on College Premises

24. COMPLAINTS

If you have any concerns about the accommodation services provided by the College, or suggestionsfor

improvement,pleasespeak totherelevant member of staff (thesearelistedonpage3ofthisbooklet).

If a matter cannot be resolved in that way please raise it with the Bursar, Catherine Webb

(csw28@emma.cam.ac.uk). Equally, concerns or suggestions can be raised with ECSU or the MCR.

There is student representation (via ECSU and the MCR) on the College committees, which are

responsible for providing accommodation & catering services, and matters of concern can therefore be

raised at those committees:

     •  Building & Services Committee

     •  Health and Safety Committee

     •  Catering Committee

     •  Information Systems Committee

     •  Garden Committee

In addition,the College operates a formal complaints procedure, a copy of this is available from the

College website.

25. DATA PROTECTION – ELECTORAL REGISTRATION

Personal data, including @cam email addresses, will be passed to the local electoral registration

authorities for electoral registration purposes, but a student’s email address will be withheld at the

request of a student. Please contact the Bursar if you wish your email address to be withheld.

26. PRESCRIPTION CHARGE REIMBURSEMENT

Students can apply to claim reimbursement for prescription charges – both single issue and pe-

payment certificates on the College website: prescription reimbursement form.

You will be asked to complete the form and include a receipt for the charges. Please ensure that you only

include the receipt, and not the prescriptions or any details of your health condition. The completed form

will be sent to the Bursar for approval, and once approved a credit will be applied to your College bill.

                       St Andrew’s Street          www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                       Cambridge CB2 3AP           @emmanuelcambridge
                                                     16

27. COUNSELLING

The College Counsellor, Tim Ellis, can be contacted via the counselling request form on the College

website, to request a session or information: counselling form or by e-mail at

counsellor@emma.cam.ac.uk.

28. CATERING ARRANGEMENTS 2024-2025

Service of meals

The following  meals  are  served in the    Hall during the Normal Period of Residence (see below)        atthe

times stated:

Breakfast                  08.15-09.15      Monday-Saturday: self-service cafeteria

Lunch                      12.15-13.30      Monday-Friday: self-service cafeteria

                           12.15-13.15      Saturday: self-service cafeteria

                           12.15-13.15      Sunday outside Full Term: self-service cafeteria

Brunch                     10.30-12.30      Sunday only in Full Term: self-service cafeteria

Dinner:

Informal Hall              17.45-19.00      Daily: self-service cafeteria

Formal Hall                19.30            Daily except Wednesday

At the end of the Normal Period of Residence in the Michaelmas and Lent Terms, continental breakfast

only will be provided, but after the end of the Easter Term full breakfast will be provided until graduation

weekend. At the beginning and/or end of the Normal Period of Residence, if the numbers in residence are

low, a cafeteria meal in the evening may not be provided. In such a case a notice to this effect will be

posted in the cafeteria and in the pigeonhole room.

No food may be eaten in Hall unless purchased from the College.

Standing on, or walking across, the tables in Hall is not allowed in any circumstances. Students sitting on

the benches by the walls in Hall must remain seated until there is a convenient opportunity to depart past

those who are still dining at their table.

On occasions when the Hall is in use for special dinners (e.g., matriculation) a self-service meal may be

obtained as usual from the servery from 17.45 and eaten in Upper Hall.

Formal Hall

Formal Hall is a set three-course meal, followed by coffee, with waiter service. Gowns must be worn. Self-

service cafeteria continues until 19.00, but diners must leave the Hall by 19.10, so that staff may complete

preparations for the 19.30 Formal Hall. During NPR Formal Hall is provided each evening except

Wednesday. There are also dinners organised by the MCR each term, information will be provided by the

MCR in due course.

ARRANGEMENTS FOR FORMALS

•  Formals held on Monday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings and have a limit of 4 guests

   per person.

•  Tuesday and Thursday evenings are open to clubs and societies and larger numbers of guests

   up to 10 guests per Emmanuel student (although you can book without guests).

So that the correct number of meals may be provided, and specific dietary requirements met without

undue waste, kitchen staff need to know how many people will be attending Formal Hall. You must

therefore book in advance by 1900, three days (72hrs) except for group bookings which must be booked

at least 10 days in advance (see below) before you intend to dine. Tables cannot be reserved in advance.

                           St Andrew’s Street        www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                           Cambridge CB2 3AP         @emmanuelcambridge
                                               17

Formal  Hall Bookings must be made online in accordance with the following procedure:

•       All Emmanuel students should make their own bookings for Formal Hall individually online.

        Students should note that the only method of booking Formal Hall is via the online system

        Formal Hall Bookings | Hall & Catering | Living at Emma | College Life | Emmanuel College,

        Cambridge

•       Places at Formal Hall cannot be booked by one Emmanuel student on behalf of another

        Emmanuel student, even if a group dinner is being organised.

•       The cost of a Formal Hall is £12.50 if you live in College accommodation, £13.30 if you do not, and

        £10.75 if you pay Contribution to Fixed Costs (CFC).

•       You can book up to 4 (non-Emmanuel) guests using the online booking system; the cost for the

        first guest is £18.00, and the second, third and fourth guest are charged at £27.00 each. The

        charges for Formal Hall including your guests will appear on your termly bill.

•       If you or a guest are a vegetarian or have any special diet, please indicate this when booking the

        meal. Please consult the Head Chef if you or your guests have other specific requirements.

•       Each Tuesday and Thursday, when group bookings are possible, up to 10 non- Emmanuel guests

        may be booked into Hall at the above prices. Students should note that it is the group organiser’s

        responsibility to notify the Head Chef of any dietary requirements, and that it may not be possible

        to accommodate last minute dietary notifications. To avoid disappointment, please organise any

        group Formal Hall well in advance.

•       One of the College’s public rooms (other than Hall) may be booked via the Head of Catering for a

        private or a club/society dinner. Formal Hall prices will not apply to such a booking.

•       During Normal Period of Residence, online cancellation is permitted without penalty, until 1845

        the day before. After this deadline, an email should be sent to the Head of Catering, no later than

        1000 on the day of the meal. After 1000 on the day of the meal, it is not possible to cancel, and the

        price of the meal will be charged to your College bill.

Formal Hall is a special occasion, and students should always have regard for their fellow diners, College

property and staff. This means:

•       Gowns must always be worn by members of the College in Formal Hall

•       Dinner starts at 1930 and you and your guests must arrive promptly before 1915. Entry to Formal

        Hall will be refused if you are late.

•       Members of College staff will refuse admission to anyone who, in their opinion, is not in a fit state

        to participate in Formal Hall

•       You have been asked to specify in advance, for yourself and for your guests, any food allergies or

        other food restrictions. Dishes will have been prepared for you to take into account those

        restrictions, and staff have been instructed to serve only the dish which has been prepared for you.

•       Staff need to know that everyone has remained in their original seats so that the correct dishes can

        be served to those who have reported food allergies. Therefore, you must remain seated during

        Formal Hall and are not allowed to move round the Hall during dinner.

•       Table setting objects must not be removed from Hall.

•       You can take photographs after the Fellows have left the Hall or after coffee has been served. If

        you choose to do so, you are expected to respect the privacy of the other diners and the reputation

        of the College.

•       There must be no toasting, singing, or drinking games. The Hall is licensed premises, and

        rowdiness and drinking games breach the terms of the College’s alcohol licence.

Breach of these guidelines will be considered a disciplinary matter and will be dealt with by the Senior

Tutor and the Master & Tutors' Committee.

DIETS & ALLERGIES

Special diets

Vegetarian and other diet dishes are always available in the cafeteria, and at Formal Hall. Please consult

the Head Chef (na385@emma.cam.ac.uk) if you have other dietary requirements. Halal meals are

                         St Andrew’s Street    www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                         Cambridge CB2 3AP     @emmanuelcambridge
                                                         18

available on Wednesdays and Saturdays during term time.

Food allergies

Students who are allergic to particular food ingredients, shoulddiscuss the matter with the Head Chef as

soon as possible after coming to College. The Head Chef will be able to advise on the ingredients in

particular dishes.

The College kitchens collect information from suppliers as to the ingredients in products and seeks to

avoid the unnecessary use of nuts and nut products. However, the possibility of cross contamination,

either during preparation or serving, cannot be ruled out. The elimination of all potential allergens is an

impracticable objective and, despite the precautions that are taken, there is an element of risk and if in

doubt, particular items or dishes must be avoid. The Head Chef will be able to discuss particular

requirements further.

If you are allergic to a particular ingredient the responsibility for your health rests with you. The British

Allergy Association advises that: “Adults, you are responsible for your allergy, you know what you are

allergic to and canmakeinformeddecisionsaboutwhatconstitutesareasonablelevelofriskwhenyou

chooseaprocessedfoodoreatout. Alwayscarryyourauto-injector(s). Ifyouhaveto useyouradrenaline

injection, then you must go to hospital for observation. If you do have a reaction in a public place, you must

inject yourself first and delegate someone to call an ambulance.”

Room bookings

The College has a range of rooms which can be booked for supervisions, society events and private

dining. Rooms needed for such events must be booked using the online enquiry form on the College

website - https://www.emma.cam.ac.uk/conferences/booking/form/

Once the room booking has been confirmed arrangements for catering must be made promptly with the

Head of Catering. All food and drinks consumed in rooms and outdoor spaces must be purchased from

the College. Catering arrangements must be finalised at least 10 working days before the event.

Charging for meals

Postgraduates who live in College accommodation on the main College site pay a room rent, inclusive of

the same contribution to the fixed costs of operating the College kitchens (CFC), as do undergraduates,

and are entitled to take meals at a reduced cost during NPR. The rent charged to postgraduates who live

in College accommodation off the main College includes a reduced contribution towards the fixed costs

of operating the College, and those postgraduates are entitled to meals during NPR at a reduced cost, in

the same way as undergraduates. Postgraduates who do not live in College accommodation, and

postgraduates living in couple accommodation do not pay any contribution to the fixed costs of operating

the College kitchens and must therefore pay the full price for any meals taken. Postgraduates in this

category may, if they wish, elect to pay a contribution towards fixed costs, and then pay the reduced price

for any meals taken.

Payment for meals

Your university card must be presented to the cashier whenever you purchase meals from the Cafeteria,

or goods from the Buttery Shop. The till will read your account number from the card, and the cost of your

purchases will then be transferred to your College account. The cost of any Formal Hall meals will be

transferred to your College account in the same way. When your College bill is issued each Term (see

General Information para. 19 above), a weekly summary will be shown of all your spending in the College

kitchens and on Formal Hall.

Important – please note the following points carefully:

•  Cash will not be accepted for the purchase of meals.

•  Please ensure that you have your card ready before you join the queue.

Each time you make a purchase from one of the tills in the kitchens, the total amount  that      you            have

charged to your catering account so far that term will show on the till display.

                       St Andrew’s Street                www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                       Cambridge CB2 3AP                 @emmanuelcambridge
                                            19

The kitchens will be closed:

•  After lunch on 22 December, and re-open for dinner on 5 January

•  After lunch on 11 April, and re-open for dinner on 22 April

•  After lunch on 16 August, and re-open for dinner on 3 September

Buttery Shop

The Buttery Shop is located by the tills in the Cafeteria, open Monday-Friday 11.00-13.30 & 17.30-19.00. It

sells wine, beer and mineral water, milk, bread and confectionery. Items can also be purchased using your

university card or debit/credit card payment. A list of the items stocked, with prices, is on display outside

the shop. In addition, there is a vending machine for soft drinks and one for confectionery nearby.

Catherine Webb, Bursar

August 2024

                        St Andrew’s Street  www.emma.cam.ac.uk

                        Cambridge CB2 3AP   @emmanuelcambridge
                    20

St Andrew’s Street  www.emma.cam.ac.uk

Cambridge CB2 3AP   @emmanuelcambridge
