File: 07.FAQs 2024.pdf
                                                    1

         EMMANUEL COLLEGE

         FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:

         Contents

         RAVEN .............................................................................................................................1

         FINANCE .........................................................................................................................1

         COUNCIL TAX.................................................................................................................3

EXEAT ....................................................................................................................................................................3

ACCOMMODATION .............................................................................................................................................4

COUPLES’ FLATS.................................................................................................................................................6

RAVEN

• When will I receive my Raven and log-in details?

   The University should be in contact by the end of August with all the details. You can also search here:

   Get your Cambridge login (Raven), email and software | IT Help and Support for more information.

FINANCE

• Do I have to pay the First Payment if I am a part-time student?

   Yes, ALL students must pay the First Payment. Part-time and Harvard students pay the reduced rate

   as well as students in college flats.

•  I paid the First Payment on the first year of my course. I am on a different course now, do I need

   to pay the First Payment again?

   You should have received a final bill with the First Payment as a credit after course completion– you

   need to pay new 100% payment of the First Payment if you are in college accommodation and reduced

   payment if you live outside of college.

•  Who do I put as Guarantor on the ‘Form of Guarantee’ if I am:

      Self-funded – parent, relative or yourself

      Funded by a funding body – if you have a sponsor please use your name as Guarantor - you are

       confirming that you have secured the funds. Please send an offer letter to student-

       billing@emma.cam.ac.uk asap - add the sponsor’s full name, address and contact details.

      Funded by Emmanuel College – as above

      EMBA/MBA student – you don’t need to fill in a guarantor, but you need to state that you are on

       EMBA/MBA course at JBS

      Harvard/Williams students – you don’t fill in this form, Harvard/Williams will do this for you.

•  What can I do if I can’t pay the First Payment on time?

      If you are self-funded

       - inform your Tutor and the Bursary immediately.

      If you are funded by the funding body

       – please send the funding letter to student-billing@emma.cam.ac.uk asap, they will respond

       in due course.

•  What the First Payment is for?

   Students` bills are paid substantially in arrears of the corresponding costs to the College (for

   example, for food, wages and so on), the First Payment evens out the fluctuations in the amount you

   owe and ensures that your final bill is small.

•  What happens to my First Payment?

                               St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                                          www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                              2

                      The First payment appears as a credit on the last bill after the Bursary has

                      confirmation that course has been completed. If you move-out of college

                      accommodation, but your course is not completed, college now will refund 80% of

                      the First Payment with your next bill and the rest after completion of the course

                      (reduced by any outstanding payments). As the First Payment is calculated as the

                      likely average termly bill, this means that your final bill will be small. Any credit

                      balance remaining will be refunded. If the College did not make a payment to you

   in the last eight months, you`ll need to resubmit your personal bank account details to student-

   billing@emma.cam.ac.uk. In any case you must submit online Exeat.

•  I live in non-college accommodation, but I would like a college room?

   Email tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk to check if any room is available. Before arrival you must

   uplift the First Payment of 80% to the quote for those living in college. Email student-

   billing@emma.cam.ac.uk to find out how much that would be.

•  How can I get a bank letter?

   Bank letters and other verification letters are prepared by the Tutorial Office. The letter will be available

   after you have completed your College ID checks. Please submit the online form Bank Letter or

   Verification Documents. Please note, requests are processed in 2-3 working days, and longer during

   busier periods.

•  How much do I pay?

   TheCollege operatesacohort rent scheme, whereby the rent for agrade 5room for each incoming

   year is fixed so that it is as close as possible to the average room rent across all the colleges in

   the year you start your course. The rents for other grades are then calculated in relation to that.

   This rent then rises in line with the CPIH (Consumer Price Index including housing costs) in each

   subsequent year of your course. This means that most of the single rooms provided by the College

   are at rents at or below the average. It also means that there will be different scales of charges

   depending on which year you started your course. The rent includes heating and electricity,

   insurance, and internet access. To the basic rent is added the Contribution to Fixed Costs (the

   CFC). Students living on the College site pay the full amount of CFC and those living further

   away pay only a proportion. Students in College flats or living in non-college accommodation do not

   pay CFC.

   The rents for those starting in 2024 are:

   Grade     1         2             3        4              5            6    7                          8

   Rent per  £153.45   £165.87   £178.17      £190.48  £202.79        £215.21  £227.51        £239.82

   week*

   * These figures are those for postgraduates resident for 10 weeks each term on the main College site.

   They are thus a maximum. Students living away from the main site, who pay a reduced CFC

   (Catering Fixed Costs) will pay slightly less, and those resident through the year are only

   charged for 12 weeks in each 13-week period (see below).

•  How many weeks am I charged for?

   There are two different arrangements depending on which sort of course you are following:

     Students who are studying for a type of degree or qualification which is completed before the

      end of June (such as PGCE or non-UK MASt, LLM, 9-m on t h M Ph il and Diploma students)

      will be able to occupy their rooms from the beginning of October to the end of June. You will be

      charged for three 13-week periods. Within each of those periods, however, you will only be

      charged 12 weeks rent.

                                 St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                                 www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                                  3

                                 For almost all other students (including PhD, MRes, MBA, MFin, 12-

                        month MPhil, Clinical Medical students and 6th year Clinical Veterinary students)

                        the rent is paid for four 13-week periods. Within each of those periods, however,

                        you will only be charged 12 weeks rent. If you are in this category, you may occupy

                        your room from the beginning of October until a changeover day about a week

                        before the end of September each year. You will be informed of the changeover

   date  in  good  time.

   If you are in this category and you are finishing your course or you wish to move into non-

   College accommodation for the coming academic year, you may leave your room before the

   changeover date.Give at least two weeks’ notice of the date you will move outusingtheonline

   Exeat System. You will only be charged rent up to the date you return your keys, or the end of June,

   whichever is the later.

COUNCIL TAX

    Students in College accommodation – Full-time students do not pay Council Tax

    Students in non-college accommodation – as above but you need to request a Tax letter from

   Tutorial Office Verification Documents | Documents & Policies | College Life | Emmanuel College,

   Cambridge and apply for council tax exemption to Cambridge City Council.

    College Flats – Full-time students do not pay Council Tax, but people in work do. The Council will

   deal directly with you over your council tax and it is your responsibility to make the necessary

   arrangements with them. You need to go to the Council Tax office in St Andrew’s Street with a letter

   from the Tutorial Office confirming that you are a full-time postgraduate student at Emmanuel. If

   your partner is also a full-time student then neither of you will be eligible for Council Tax. If your

   partner is working, they will be eligible for Council Tax as if they were living in the flat by themselves

   (i.e. with a 25% reduction). Failure to do this will mean that you are charged at the full rate, and

   failure to pay a council tax bill will result in legal action being taken against you by the council.

   More      information          about  council     tax        for  students        available            here:

   https://www.cambridge.gov.uk/discounts-for-students-and-school-leavers

EXEAT

   The Exeat System requires at least 2 weeks’ notice, please submit if you:

    want to move-out earlier than your room reservation ends,

    want to move out on the day when the room reservation ends, email tutorial-

   office@emma.cam.ac.uk asap to inform us of your departure. We can submit Exeat on your behalf,

    if you are in college flat,

    if you your course is completed,

    if you are moving to non-college accommodation, please submit Exeat and submit another one

   when your course is completed.

   Please note that the final bill could be delayed if you don’t submit your Exeat.

•  I want to move-out earlier and I haven’t submitted Exeat form and the system doesn’t allow me

   to do it now. What can I do?

   Please email Tutorial Office asap, you will be charged for 2 weeks from the date you informed of your

   move-out intention.

•  Do I need to submit the Exeat if I’m staying over the summer and for the next academic year?

   No. Continuing students do not need to submit the Exeat unless you would like to move-out to non-

   college accommodation. If you continue your course next year or the course is 12month long, you can

                                  St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                                         www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                             4

                           stay in your accommodation until 21st September at the latest, unless otherwise

                           agreed.

                           Please complete the Exeat only if:

                                   you are leaving Cambridge permanently (end of course) whether you live

                           in college or not – the First Payment will be refunded with your final bill,

                                   moving into non-College accommodation – 80% of the First Payment will

      be refunded with your next bill, and remaining 20% with your final bill when your course is

      completed.

     you are withdrawing from your course, the First Payment will be refunded with your final bill

•  I completed my course, but I will start another one next academic year. Do I need to submit the

   Exeat?

   Yes, the First Payment will be credited to your final bill. But you need to make the First Payment again

   for the next academic year.

•  I have left my college accommodation when can I expect my First Payment to be returned?

    your course is finished and you have no outstanding payments – your First Payment will be credited

      to your final bill.

    your course is continuing – a partial first payment (for students in non-College accommodation)

      will be refunded with your next bill.

•  I moved out of college accommodation, but I would like to come back, what should I do?

   Email tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk for availability if rooms are available and:

    your fist payment has already been refunded – you must pay it back again,

    your first payment has not been refunded – the room will be allocated subject to availability.

•  I submitted my Exeat, but I need to change my final leaving date. What shall I do?

   Submit Exeat again. We will either accept it or not, depending on rooms availability.

•  I do not live in college accommodation, do I need to submit the Exeat form?

   Yes. Submit the Exeat if you finish your course for the First Payment to be credited to your final bill.

•  I completed my course, but my Camsis record shows I am an active student, when can I have my

   final bill?

   If Camsis record shows that you are an active student, College will not be able to draw your final bill

   until your course is officially completed. You can contact Student Registry for information

   https://www.student-registry.admin.cam.ac.uk/contact-us

ACCOMMODATION

• Can I arrive earlier?

   If you need to come into residence before the beginning of October, you must contact Tutorial Office

   tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk immediately. Postgraduate rooms are not always available earlier

   than the agreed move-in date. It is understood that PGCE and clinical students will have to arrive early.

   You will be charged for these extra days of accommodation and payment for this will be due by mid-

   October.

•  Is there a rent rebate if I am not living in my room?

   Rent rebates are allowed only in the following clearly defined circumstances, which must be approved

   by the Postgraduate Tutor:

   1) Clinical Medical Students away on their SUMMER holiday. A separate form containing the

   conditions to be met will be available in due course.

                                    St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                                    www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                                  5

          2) PGCE students away on teaching practice.

          3) Research students with permission to work away from Cambridge (permission

          from the Student Registry). The period away must be at least two months. Students

          allowed such rebates may vacate their rooms for the whole period, in which case

          no rent is payable, or keep their possessions in the room, occupying it at most at

          weekends only, in which case 3/7ths of the normal rent is payable.

          4) Clinical Veterinary Students (year 4 and 5) outside of NPR. It is possible to charge

   year 4 and 5 Clinical Vets for a college room as undergraduate student (3x10 weeks). Student must

   inform Tutorial Office about that, otherwise they will be charged as a postgraduate student (3x12

   weeks). If a student wishes to be charged like undergraduate, they must move-in/move-out within the

   NPR and will be charged for any additional days they stay in their college room outside of the NPR.

   Term Dates | College Life | Emmanuel College, Cambridge

   Student must inform Tutorial Office about the date of departure and return, they can leave their

   belongings in the room, but must return the room key to the Porters’ Lodge.

•  Can I replace my bed/desk/furniture?

   You cannot replace or remove any furniture unless you have a written permission from the Bursar

   bursar@emma.cam.ac.uk

•  I’m going home for Christmas break. Will I be charged for my room?

   Yes, you will be fully charged whether you are in your room or not. You do not need to empty your room.

   But you must inform Tutorial Office of your intention to leave the college. Postgraduate students in

   the 13 weeks’ term arrangement are charged for 12 weeks’ and have 1 week free of charge per term.

•  Can I see or choose the room before I arrive?

   The demand for College rooms is very high and we try to allocate rooms as fairly as possible. We regret

   but it is not possible to see or choose your room prior arrival.

•  Do I have to return my room key to the Porters’ Lodge?

   Each time you leave your accommodation for more than one day you should return the key to the

   Porters’ Lodge. You will be charged if you lose the key. You must return the keys to the Porters’ Lodge

   at the end of your rental period. Otherwise, £50 will be added to your final bill. Please note that

   Bedders’ or other College staff members are not appropriate persons to whom the key can be handed

   over.

•  How much notice should I give if I am moving out?

   At the end of your course you should give two weeks’ notice of the date you will be moving out using

   the online Exeat system (www.emma.cam.ac.uk/exeat) . If you wish to leave your room before the

   originally booked departure date, you need to also give 2 weeks’ notice.

•  I completed my course but I would like to stay longer in my accommodation. Is that possible?

   Please email tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk as soon as possible, we can extend your booking

   subject to availability. Please note that if your course has finished you must pay for accommodation

   in advance. Credit facilities are not available during the summer. All students who will complete their

   course in June, for example MPhils on a 9 months course or students who will graduate in August, will

   need to pay rent in advance for the extra period they want to stay in College accommodation. This is

   not applicable to continuing students as they will get termly bills which they need to settle on time.

•  I don’t like my room. Can I have a different room?

   The room demand is very high and usually all             our      rooms   are  allocated.  Email  tutorial-

                          St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                          www.emma.cam.ac.uk
                                                     6

                        office@emma.cam.ac.uk and we will add you to the waiting list and let you know if

                        anything becomes available.

                        •  My radiator, wi-fi, socket, bulb etc is not working. What shall I do?

                        Contact Helpdesk by submitting online request to relevant department: Helpdesk

                        | Apps | Emmanuel College, Cambridge

•  I’m PhD/medical student and would like college accommodation for the next year. How does

   that work?

   In late February all postgraduate students receive Room Ballot email. We include all PhD students

   regardless of where they come from. There is a separate room ballot for Medics

COUPLES’ FLATS

• How much do I pay?

   You will be told how much the rent for your flat is before you arrive. You are billed monthly on or around

   the 19th of each month for the period beginning the 25th of that month. The rents are reviewed each

   year. The rent includes heating and electricity, insurance, and internet access. You do not have to pay

   the Contribution to Fixed Costs (CFC). Separately, you are also sent your College bill each term for the

   charges you incur in College such as meals taken in Hall.

•  What do I need to pay in advance?

   You must pay one month deposit and one month rent in advance i.e. two months’ rent in total. In

   addition you must make a First Payment against your College bill. This is at the lower rate, the same

   as that for people not living in College accommodation. This is set against your final College bill at the

   end of your course.

•  How much notice should I give if I am moving out?

   At the end of your course you should give two weeks’ notice of the date you will be moving out using

   the online exeat system at www.emma.cam.ac.uk/exeat . If you wish to leave your flat before the

   expected date you need to give one month’s notice. Unless you make special arrangements with the

   Postgraduate Tutor you will be charged to the end of any rental period which has already started by

   the time the period of notice ends.

•  How long can I stay in the College Flat?

   The date will be provided in the agreement. Usually, the latest you can stay is Sunday around 22nd

   September or end of your course, whichever comes first.

   Any questions related to finances, please email student-billing@emma.cam.ac.uk

   Any other questions – tutorial-office@emma.cam.ac.uk

   Tutorial Office

   August 2024

                           St Andrew’s Street, Cambridge CB2 3AP

                                        www.emma.cam.ac.uk
